English I - (1 credit)
Prerequisite: None
In English I, students strengthen knowledge and skills in reading, writing, listening, speaking, and
thinking.  Students read, write, and communicate daily, engage in activities that build on existing
comprehension skills through recursive exposure to multiple genres and types of writing.  This course
focuses on themes related to survival, change, transformation, and the future.  Students read and
understand a variety of complex texts across multiple genres that are topic-based and driven by the
essential questions and state standards.  Students will encounter authors’ perspectives as they read
literature from across time periods and cultures. As students read a wide array of literature and engage
in activities, they will formulate and defend their opinions as they develop their own perspectives.
Varied texts allow students to encounter new perspectives, rethink ideas, and deepen their knowledge
of contemporary, traditional, and classic texts.  Students explore different types and styles of writing
and develop their cognitive evaluation and analysis skills by making real life connections through
authentic reading experiences. Through exploration of a variety of author’s voices, students start
developing their own sense of voice to develop their writing skills. Students are provided opportunities
to express, clarify, justify, interpret, and represent their ideas, and respond to peer/teacher feedback
orally and in written form as appropriate throughout the course.  Students analyze texts through the
eyes of a reader and writer and complete performance-based assessments to demonstrate their critical
thinking and synthesis of the unit theme and essential questions.  Inquiry and research continues to
play an important role as students evaluate social, cultural, and historical influences on texts.  Through
the use of multiple learning and instructional strategies, students acquire not only the knowledge they
need but also the confidence in their own abilities to learn and to communicate effectively in real-world
situations.  This course will require an End of Course Exam.
English I Advanced - (1 credit)
Prerequisite: None
English I Advanced engages students in learning all the essential knowledge and skills of English I
while providing greater depth. This enhanced curriculum builds the tools necessary to succeed in AP
Language and Literature classes. Independent reading is structured to support students’ interaction
with a text through the application of close reading analysis with AP reading strategies, leading to an
ability to independently analyze any new text. Students are confronted with increasingly challenging
texts, both classic and contemporary, fiction and nonfiction. Students are challenged by complex writing
tasks in persuasion, argumentation, literary analysis, and synthesis in order to build capacity to write
effectively in these modes. With exposure to AP strategies, nonfiction texts, and varied writing tasks,
students will exit the program equipped with the kind of higher-order thinking skills, knowledge, and
behaviors necessary to be successful in AP classes and post-secondary education. This course will
require an End of Course Exam.
GT Humanities I / English I Advanced - (1 credit)
Prerequisite: Identification/Selection as Gifted/Talented
GT Humanities I / English I Advanced and GT Humanities II / AP World History are courses that
combine English I Advanced with AP World History in a two-year interdisciplinary spiral. The basic
content is a historical study of the commonalities of the fine arts, including literature, the visual arts,
architecture, and music. Students will learn and practice the craft of writing through various products,
including AP style writing. Literature from a variety of world traditions will also be a key focus. Ninth and
tenth grade students will sit in the same class while earning credit in separate courses; ninth graders
will earn English I Advanced credit while tenth graders earn AP World History credit. At the conclusion
of GT Humanities II, students can sit for the AP World History exam to possibly earn college credit. GT
Humanities does NOT fulfill the fine arts requirement for graduation and is not recognized as a
fine arts course by TEA.
English for Speakers of Other Languages ESOL I - (1 credit)
Prerequisite: Language Proficiency Placement Test, LPAC Recommendation
English for Speakers of Other Languages I (ESOL I) is designed for beginning to intermediate fluency
level students coping with a new language and a new culture. Basic skills are introduced in a simple,
easy to- understand framework helping to bridge the gap between ESOL and other academic subjects.
ESOL provides opportunities for students to practice listening, speaking, reading and writing skills as
they develop independence and confidence in the use of English. The course includes the study of
phonics, vocabulary, grammar, reading, and writing.
English II - (1 credit)
Prerequisite: English I or equivalent
In English II, students strengthen knowledge and skills in reading, writing, listening, speaking, and
thinking.  Students read, write, and communicate daily, engage in activities that build on existing
comprehension skills through recursive exposure to multiple genres and types of writing.  This course
focuses on themes related to fear, isolation, forgiveness, and materialism.  Students read and
understand a variety of complex texts across multiple genres that are topic-based and driven by the
essential questions and state standards.  Students will encounter authors’ perspectives as they read
literature from across time periods and cultures. As students read a wide array of literature and engage
in activities, they will formulate and defend their opinions as they develop their own perspectives.
Varied texts allow students to encounter new perspectives, rethink ideas, and deepen their knowledge
of contemporary, traditional, and classic texts.  Students explore different types and styles of writing
and develop their cognitive evaluation and analysis skills by making real life connections through
authentic reading experiences. Through exploration of a variety of author’s voices, students start
developing their own sense of voice to develop their writing skills. Students are provided opportunities
to express, clarify, justify, interpret, and represent their ideas, and respond to peer/teacher feedback
orally and in written form as appropriate throughout the course.  Students analyze texts through the
eyes of a reader and writer and complete performance-based assessments to demonstrate their critical
thinking and synthesis of the unit theme and essential questions.  Inquiry and research continues to
play an important role as students evaluate social, cultural, and historical influences on texts.  Through
the use of multiple learning and instructional strategies, students acquire not only the knowledge they
need but also the confidence in their own abilities to learn and to communicate effectively in real-world
situations.  This course will require an End of Course Exam.
English II Advanced - (1 credit)
Prerequisite: English I or equivalent
English II Advanced engages students in learning all the essential knowledge and skills of English
II while providing greater depth. This enhanced curriculum builds the tools necessary to succeed in AP
Language and Literature classes. Independent reading is structured to support students’ interaction
with a text through the application of close reading analysis with AP reading strategies, leading to an
ability to independently analyze any new text. Students are confronted with increasingly challenging
texts, both classic and contemporary, fiction and nonfiction. Students are challenged by complex writing
tasks in persuasion, argumentation, literary analysis, and synthesis in order to build capacity to write
effectively in these modes. With exposure to AP strategies, nonfiction texts, and varied writing tasks,
students will exit the program equipped with the kind of higher-order thinking skills, knowledge, and
behaviors necessary to be successful in AP classes and post-secondary education. This course will
require an End of Course Exam.
GT Humanities II / AP World History - (1 credit)
Prerequisite: Identification/Selection as Gifted/Talented & GT Humanities I
GT Humanities I / English I Advanced and GT Humanities II / AP World History are courses that
combine English I Advanced with AP World History in a two-year interdisciplinary spiral. The basic
content is a historical study of the commonalities of the fine arts, including literature, the visual arts,
architecture, and music. Students will learn and practice the craft of writing through various products,
including AP style writing. Literature from a variety of world traditions will also be a key focus. Ninth and
tenth grade students will sit in the same class while earning credit in separate courses; ninth graders
will earn English I Advanced credit while tenth graders earn AP World History credit. At the conclusion
of GT Humanities II, students can sit for the AP World History exam to possibly earn college credit. GT
Humanities does NOT fulfill the fine arts requirement for graduation and is not recognized as a
fine arts course by TEA.
English for Speakers of Other Languages ESOL II - (1 credit)
Prerequisite: Language Proficiency Placement Test, LPAC Recommendation
English for Speakers of Other Languages II (ESOL II) is designed for intermediate to advanced fluency
level students transitioning between basic skills instruction in ESOL I and grade level Sheltered English.
Curriculum for ESOL II incorporates intensive academic vocabulary instruction while also linking literary
concepts from ENG II to adapted ESOL texts. The course expectations are in alignment with those of
ENG II, while instruction will also integrate literary concepts from ENG I and introduce literary terms
from ENG III.
English III - (1 credit)
Prerequisite: English II or equivalent
In English III, students strengthen knowledge and skills in reading, writing, listening, speaking, and
thinking.  Students read, write, and communicate daily, engage in activities that build on existing
comprehension skills through recursive exposure to multiple genres and types of writing. This course
focuses on themes related to what makes a nation, the power of words, influencing change, and moral
dilemma.  Students read and understand a variety of complex texts across multiple genres that are
topic-based and driven by the essential questions and state standards. Students will encounter author’s
perspectives as they read literature from across time periods and cultures. As students read
a wide array of literature and engage in activities, they will formulate and defend their opinions as they
develop their own perspectives. Varied texts allow students to encounter new perspectives, rethink
ideas, and deepen their knowledge of contemporary, traditional, and classic texts. Students explore
different types and styles of writing and develop their own cognitive evaluation and analysis skills by
making real life connections through authentic reading experiences. Through exploration of a variety
of author’s voices, students start developint their own sense of voice to develop their writing skills.
Students are provided opportunities to express, clarify justify, interpret, and represent their ideas,
and respond to peer/teacher feedback orally and in written form as appropriate throughout the
course.  Students analyze texts through the eyes of a reader and writer and complete performance-
based assessments to demonstrate their critical thinking and synthesis of the unit theme and essential
questions. Inquiry and research continues to play an important role as studnets evaluate
social, cultural, and historical influences on texts. Through the use of multiple learning and
instructional strategies, students acquire not only the knowledge they need but also the
confidence in their own abilities to learn and to communicate effectively in real-world situations.
AP Language and Composition - (1 credit)
Prerequisite: English II or equivalent
AP English Language and Composition is an introductory college-level composition course. Students
cultivate their understanding of writing and rhetorical arguments through reading, analyzing, and writing
texts as they explore topics like rhetorical situation, claims and evidence, reasoning and organization,
and style.  This course focuses on the development and revision of evidence-based analytic and
argumentative writing, the rhetorical analysis of nonfiction texts, and the decisions writers make as they
compose and revise. Students evaluate, synthesize, and cite research to support their arguments.
Additionally, they read and analyze rhetorical elements and their effects in nonfiction texts—including
images as forms of text— from a range of disciplines and historical periods. This course prepares
students for the Advanced Placement Exam which may earn the student college credit.
GT American Studies - (2 credits)
Prerequisite: English II or equivalent and Identification/Selection as Gifted/Talented
GT American Studies combines AP Language and Composition with AP U.S. History through an
interdisciplinary integration of curriculum which allows for deeper connections between the two AP
courses. The course is a study of the development of the United States through the integration of
history, composition, literature, writing, art, architecture, philosophy, music, and theater. The course
focuses on the philosophical foundation of American thought while exploring themes of progression,
reconstruction, conflict, human rights, migration, perspective, and change. GT American Studies
integrates two Advanced Placement courses; therefore, the class is double blocked over the A day/B
day time block. Students will take the End of Course Exam for U.S. History. Students are also strongly
encouraged to take the Advanced Placement exams for Language and Composition and U.S. History
English IV - (1 credit)
Prerequisite: English III or equivalent
In English IV, students strengthen knowledge and skills in reading, writing, listening, speaking, and
thinking.  Students read, write, and communicate daily, engage in activities that build on existing
comprehension skills through recursive exposure to multiple genres and types of writing. This
course focuses on themes related to heroism, societal influence, societal change, and self discovery.
Students read and understand a variety of complex texts across multiple genres that are topic-based
and driven by the essential questions and state standards. Students will encounter authors’
perspectives as they read literature from across time periods and cultures. As students read a wide
array of literature and engage in activities, they will formulate and defend their opinions as they develop
their own perspectives. Varied texts allow students to encounter new perspectives, rethink ideas, and
deepen their knowledge of contemporary, traditional, and classic texts.  Students explore different types
and styles of writing and develop their cognitive evaluation and analysis skills by making real life
connections through authentic reading experiences. Through exploration of a variety of author’s voices,
students start developing their own sense of voice to develop their writing skills. Students are provided
opportunities to express, clarify, justify, interpret, and represent their ideas, and respond to
peer/teacher feedback orally and in written form as appropriate throughout the course.  Students
analyze texts through the eyes of a reader and writer and complete performance-based assessments to
demonstrate their critical thinking and synthesis of the unit theme and essential questions. Inquiry and
research continues to play an important role as students evaluate social, cultural, and historical
influences on texts. Through the use of multiple learning and instructional strategies, students acquire
not only the knowledge they need but also the confidence in their own abilities to learn and to
communicate effectively in real-world situations.
AP Literature and Composition - (1 credit)
Prerequisite: English III or equivalent
AP English Literature and Composition is an introductory college-level literary analysis course.
Students cultivate their understanding of literature through reading and analyzing texts as they explore
concepts like character, setting, structure, perspective, figurative language, and literary analysis in the
context of literary works. This course focuses on reading, analyzing, and writing about imaginative
literature (fiction, poetry, drama) from various periods. Students engage in close reading and critical
analysis of imaginative literature to deepen their understanding of the ways writers use language to
provide both meaning and pleasure. As they read, students consider a work’s structure, style, and
themes, as well as its use of figurative language, imagery, and symbolism. Writing assignments include
expository, analytical, and argumentative essays that require students to analyze and interpret literary
works. This prepares students for the Advanced Placement Exam which may earn the student college credit.
College Readiness for English Language Arts and Reading - (1 credit)
12th grade only
Prerequisite:  Counselor Recommendation
The purpose of the College Readiness English Language Arts and Reading course is to provide high
school students an opportunity to gain and demonstrate the necessary college readiness skills to be
successful in college-level, credit-bearing courses without the need for remedial or developmental
coursework. This course is designed for 12th grade students whose English coursework, End of Course
examinations in English, and college readiness examination scores indicate that a student is not ready
to perform entry-level college coursework in composition and literature.  The performance-based
course integrates basic academic reading skills and basic writing skills and is designed to develop
students’ critical reading and academic writing skills through extensive instruction emphasizing skills in
vocabulary, grammar, comprehension, paragraph elements, essay structure, and critical analysis.
Students will demonstrate comprehension of varied texts through written responses, progressing from
advanced paragraphs to well-developed, academic essays. The course fulfills TSI requirements for
reading and writing.  Entry into this course requires counselor recommendation and may count for the
fourth English Language Arts credit. There are no Principles or Applied courses for College Readiness
courses.
Dual Credit English (III or IV): ENGL 1301 Composition I – (1/2 credit)
11th-12th grade
Prerequisite: English II (when replacing English III) or III (when replacing English IV) and meet
eligibility requirements
Intensive study of and practice in writing processes, from invention and researching to drafting,
revising, and editing, both individually and collaboratively. Emphasis on effective rhetorical choices,
including audience, purpose, arrangement, and style. Focus on writing the academic essay as a vehicle
for learning, communicating, and critical analysis. Lab required. Prerequisite: Meet TSI college-
readiness standard for Reading and Writing; or equivalent. 3 credit hours. This course fulfills ½ credit
for either English III (for 11th graders intending to take ENGL 2332 and ENGL 2333 in the 12th grade
year) or English IV (for 12th graders). It should be paired with ENGL 1302 in the second semester to
grant a full credit of high school English. Please note that 11th graders taking ENGL 1301 and 1302 to
complete the 3rd English Credit must plan to take ENGL 2332 and ENGL 2333 to complete the fourth
English credit).
Collin College Dual Credit English (III or IV): ENGL 1302 Composition II – (1/2 credit)
11th-12th grade
Prerequisite: ENGL 1301, and meet eligibility requirements
Intensive study of and practice in the strategies and techniques for developing research-based
expository and persuasive texts. Emphasis on effective and ethical rhetorical inquiry, including primary
and secondary research methods; critical reading of verbal, visual, and multimedia texts; systematic
evaluation, synthesis, and documentation of information sources; and critical thinking about evidence
and conclusions. Lab required. Prerequisite: ENGL 1301. 3 credit hours. This course fulfills ½ credit for
either English III (for 11th graders intending to take ENGL 2332 and ENGL 2333 in the 12th grade year)
or English IV (for 12th graders). It should be paired with ENGL 1302 in the second semester to grant a
full credit of high school English.
Collin College Dual Credit English IV: ENGL 2332 World Literature I – (1/2 credit)
12th grade
Prerequisite: ENGL 1302 and meet eligibility requirements
A survey of world literature from the ancient world through the sixteenth century. Students will study
works of prose, poetry, drama, and fiction in relation to their historical and cultural contexts. Texts will
be selected from a diverse group of authors and traditions. 3 credit hours. This course satisfies ½ credit
for the Advanced English high school credit (English IV) and should be paired with ENGL 2333 in the
second semester.
Collin College Dual Credit English IV: ENGL 2333 World Literature II – (1/2 credit)
12th grade
Prerequisite: 2332 and meet eligibility requirements
A survey of world literature from the seventeenth century to the present. Students will study works of
prose, poetry, drama, and fiction in relation to their historical and cultural contexts. Texts will be
selected from a diverse group of authors and traditions. Prerequisite: ENGL 1302 or ENGL 2311. 3
credit hours. This course satisfies ½ credit for the Advanced English high school credit (English IV) and
should be paired with ENGL 2332 in the first semester.
Creative and Imaginative Writing - (1/2 credit)
Prerequisite: English I or equivalent
The study of creative writing allows high school students to earn credit while developing versatility as a
writer. The forms and standards of writing are addressed in a varied format. Many pre-writing
techniques will be used, including multimedia, discussion reading, journal, and personal experience.
Writing for comedy, persuasion, drama, and narration will be included in this class. Students are
expected to demonstrate an understanding of the recursive nature of the writing process, effectively
applying the conventions of usage and mechanics of written English. The students' evaluation of their
own writing as well as the writing of others ensures that students completing this course are able to
analyze and discuss published and unpublished pieces of writing, develop peer and self-assessments
for effective writing, and set their own goals as writers.
English Language Development and Acquisition (ELDA) I or II - (1 credit each)
9th-10th Grade
Corequisite:  ESOL I or ESOL II, Language Proficiency Testing and LPAC Recommendation
ELDA is designed to provide instructional opportunities for secondary students with little or no English
proficiency. These students have scored at the negligible/very limited academic language level of the
state-approved English oral language proficiency tests. This course enables students to become
increasingly more proficient in English in all four language domains. It addresses cognitive, linguistic,
and affective needs.  It will validate a student's native language and culture as a valuable resource and
as a foundation to attain the English language. It will develop social language, survival vocabulary, and
the basic building blocks of literacy for newly arrived and preliterate students.
English Language Development and Acquisition (ELDA) III or IV - (1 credit each)
11th-12th Grade
Corequisite:  English III or English IV, Language Proficiency Testing and LPAC Recommendation
ELDA is designed to provide instructional opportunities for secondary students with little or no English
proficiency. These students have scored at the negligible/very limited academic language level of the
state-approved English oral language proficiency tests. This course enables students to become
increasingly more proficient in English in all four language domains. It addresses cognitive, linguistic,
and affective needs.  It will validate a student's native language and culture as a valuable resource and
as a foundation to attain the English language. It will develop social language, survival vocabulary, and
the basic building blocks of literacy for newly arrived and preliterate students.
Practical Writing Skills – (1 credit)
9th – 12th grade
Prerequisite: Counselor Recommendation
This study of writing allows high school students to earn credit while developing skills necessary for
composing written documents with a deeper knowledge of the functions of the language. This course
emphasizes skill in the use of conventions and mechanics of written English, the appropriate and
effective application of English grammar, and the effective use of vocabulary. Students are expected to
understand the recursive nature of the writing process. Evaluation of students’ own writing as well as
the writing of others ensures that students completing this course are able to analyze and evaluate their
writing.  This course is intended for remediation in writing.
Reading I, II, III – (1 credit each)
Prerequisite: Counselor Recommendation
Reading is a one or two semester course for students who struggle with basic reading competencies.
Emphasis is placed on using specific reading strategies to increase skills in comprehension, vocabulary
development, fluency and reference usage.  Instruction is differentiated and tailored to the individual
needs of each student. The model includes experiences in whole and small group instruction,
independent reading, and technology-based learning.  This course is intended for remediation in
reading.
Debate I-III - (1 credit)
Prerequisite: Instructor Approval
The major objective of Debate class is to train and develop students in the art of argumentation to
compete in Speech Tournaments. Students have the opportunity to earn awards, as well as
membership in the Forensics Honor Society, the National Forensic League (NFL). The course develops
skills in argumentation, persuasion, research, audience analysis, and other life skills. Tournament
participation (5-8 tournaments a year) is required. Students in Advanced Debate courses will use the
course as a Tournament Prep class. Debate is a yearlong course. Students may earn up to 3 state
credits for debate. Starting with the class of 2021, this course satisfies the high school speech credit
requirement.
Oral Interpretation - (1 credit)
Prerequisite: Instructor Approval
Oral Interpretation is an intensive speech and performance course in which students study the oral
reading of a literary text as a communication art. Students will choose and analyze literature from many
genres and prepare dynamic performances of selections in preparation for tournament competition in
NFL, TFA, and UIL Interpretive speaking events. Tournament participation (5-8 tournaments a year) is
required, and NFL Honor Society membership is available. Students in Advanced Oral Interop courses
will use the course as a tournament prep class. Course credit: one is preferred, but students may
register by semester. Students may take this course for up to three credits.
Advanced Public Speaking - (1 credit)
Prerequisite: Debate I and II
Advanced Public Speaking develops and refines platform-speaking skills. The main objective is training
students to effectively distinguish and use extemporaneous speaking in the classroom, in social
situations, in the workplace and as competitors in UIL and TFA extemporaneous speaking events.
Although the emphasis will be on training for academic competitions, direct life applications of these
skills are the primary goal. Starting with the class of 2021, this course satisfies the high school speech
credit requirement.
Collin College Dual Credit Speech: SPCH 1311 Introduction to Speech – (1/2 credit)
Offered to the 2021 graduates and beyond ONLY
Prerequisite: Meet eligibility requirements
Introduces basic human communication principles and theories embedded in a variety of contexts
including interpersonal, small group, and public speaking. 3 credit hours. This course satisfies the high
school speech credit requirement.
Journalism I - (1 credit)
Prerequisite: None
Journalism I is an elective and serves as a preliminary course for students interested in serving on the
yearbook or newspaper staff. The course covers all aspects of journalism including media law, ethics
and responsibilities, interviewing, journalism writing styles, photojournalism, and layout and design of
publications. Students requesting this course should have a strong interest in writing.   This course may
substitute for the English 4 credit for those students on the Minimum High School Graduation Program
(TAC 74.52 (b)(1)(B)). This course may count as a technology applications course. Materials fee may
be required for this course. This course can be used to satisfy the technology applications credit.
Newspaper I - (1 credit)
Prerequisite: Photojournalism or Journalism & Instructor Approval
Students will continue to learn media law, ethics and responsibilities, as well as apply developed skills
of journalistic writing and writing for a variety of audiences. Students will extend practice of principles of
interviewing, news evaluation and information gathering. Students will add to and continue to practice
skills of reporting, writing and editing in a variety of journalistic styles. They will utilize knowledge and
principles of publishing and design, learn economics of publishing, and serve as reporters for the
school newspaper. Student will prepare copy and layouts, sell and design advertisements, and select
illustrations and photographs for publication, as well as assume editorial leadership roles on the staff.
Students enrolled in this class will be responsible for producing content for the school’s newspaper
and/or the school’s online news site. This course can be used to satisfy the technology applications
credit.
Advanced Journalism/Newspaper II-III – (1 credit)
Prerequisite: Newspaper I and Instructor Approval (application required)
Students in Advanced Journalism/Newspaper will be responsible for producing content for the school’s
newspaper and/or the school’s online news site. This hands-on course will make use of the advanced
features of Adobe InDesign and Photoshop, both powerful publishing tools used by professionals. This
course may count as a technology applications course.
Yearbook I - (1 credit)
Prerequisite: Photojournalism or Journalism & Instructor Approval (application required)
Yearbook 1 is a course that teaches students about all phases of yearbook production. Students will
learn about theme development, yearbook organization, reporting and writing, photojournalism, design,
financial planning, meeting deadlines, and distribution. Students will be required to cover both in and
out of school events through photography and reporting assignments. Students enrolled in this course
are responsible for producing the school’s yearbook and contributing to other student media. This
course can be used to satisfy the technology applications credit.
Advanced Journalism/Yearbook II-III - (1 credit)
Prerequisite: Yearbook I/II and Instructor Approval (application required)
Yearbook 2 and 3 continues the skill development started in Yearbook 1 as students work as staff
members or move into leadership roles. Students will be required to cover both in and out of school
events through photography and reporting assignments. Students enrolled in this course are
responsible for producing the school’s yearbook and contributing to other student media. This course
can be used to satisfy the technology applications credit.
Independent Study in Journalism - (1/2-1 credit)
Prerequisite: At least one year on publication staff and Instructor Approval
Students enrolled in this course will have the opportunity to refine and enhance their journalistic skills
through research of self-selected topics, plan, organize and prepare a project to be presented to the
teacher or school through a school-sponsored publication.
Photojournalism - (1 credit)
Prerequisite: None
Photojournalism is an elective where students learn about composition elements, appropriate photo
editing, and explore digital camera techniques through a variety of projects. Students will improve their
photography skills and develop their vision as photographers while they plan, make, and edit photos for
presentation in both digital and print formats. Students will be required to take photos both in and out of
school for project assignments. As part of the journalism program, students will learn and practice
interview techniques, journalistic writing, page layout, and design techniques. Photojournalism is a
recommended prerequisite for students interested in applying for the yearbook staff. Although not
required, it would be to the student’s advantage to have a personal DSLR camera for use at home for
out of school projects. This course can be used to satisfy the technology applications credit. Materials
fee required for this course.
Algebra I - (1 credit)
Prerequisite: 8th Grade Math
In Algebra I, students will build on the knowledge and skills for mathematics in Grades 6-8, which
provide a foundation in linear relationships, number and operations, and proportionality. Students will
study linear, quadratic, and exponential functions and their related transformations, equations, and
associated solutions. Students will connect functions and their associated solutions in both
mathematical and real-world situations. Students will use technology to collect and explore data and
analyze statistical relationships. In addition, students will study polynomials of degree one and two,
radical expressions, sequences, and laws of exponents. Students will generate and solve linear
systems with two equations and two variables and will create new functions through transformations.
This course will require an End of Course Exam.
Algebra I Advanced - (1 credit)
Prerequisite: 8th Grade Math
Algebra I advanced students will expand on concepts covered in on-level Algebra I with an intense
focus on high level application, problem solving, and higher order thinking processes. Students will also
develop strategies that prepare them for future Advanced Placement math courses. This course will
require an End of Course Exam.
Geometry - (1 credit)
Prerequisite: Algebra I
In Geometry, students will build on the knowledge and skills for mathematics in Kindergarten-Grade 8
and Algebra I to strengthen their mathematical reasoning skills in geometric contexts. Students will
explore concepts covering coordinate and transformational geometry; logical argument and
constructions; proof and congruence; similarity, proof, and trigonometry; two- and three-dimensional
figures; circles; and probability. Due to the emphasis of probability and statistics in the college and
career readiness standards, standards dealing with probability have been added to the geometry
curriculum to ensure students have proper exposure to these topics before pursuing their post-
secondary education.  Students will also learn definitions, postulates, and theorems that help describe
geometric relationships.
Geometry Advanced - (1 credit)
Prerequisite: Algebra I
Geometry Advanced students will expand on concepts covered in on-level Geometry with an intense
focus on high level application, problem solving, and higher order thinking processes.  Students will
also develop strategies that prepare them for future Advanced Placement math courses.
Algebraic Reasoning - (1 credit)
Prerequisite: Algebra I
In Algebraic Reasoning, students will build on the knowledge and skills for mathematics in
Kindergarten-Grade 8 and Algebra I, continue with the development of mathematical reasoning related
to algebraic understandings and processes, and deepen a foundation for studies in subsequent
mathematics courses. Students will broaden their knowledge of functions and relationships, including
linear, quadratic, square root, rational, cubic, cube root, exponential, absolute value, and logarithmic
functions. Students will study these functions through analysis and application that includes
explorations of patterns and structure, number and algebraic methods, and modeling from data using
tools that build to workforce and college readiness such as probes, measurement tools, and software
tools, including spreadsheets.  Students who may be candidates for athletic scholarships should be
advised that this course may not meet minimum core requirements under NCAA guidelines.
Notes on sequence of math courses:
●  Algebra II may be taken concurrently with Geometry during the 10th grade year to allow for
Calculus the 12th grade year.
●  Depending on the student’s’ needs, Algebraic Reasoning may be taken before, after, or
concurrently with Geometry.
Algebra II - (1 credit)
Prerequisite: Algebra I
In Algebra II, students will build on the knowledge and skills for mathematics in Kindergarten-Grade 8
and Algebra I to prepare students for 4th year math courses. This course is taught with a functional
approach giving students a sound foundation for either technical or non-technical degrees in college.
Students will broaden their knowledge of quadratic functions, exponential functions, and systems of
equations. Students will study polynomials, logarithmic, square root, cubic, cube root, absolute value,
rational functions, and their related equations. Students will connect functions to their inverses and
associated equations and solutions in both mathematical and real-world situations. In addition, students
will extend their knowledge of data analysis and numeric and algebraic methods.
Algebra II Advanced – (1 credit)
Prerequisite: Algebra I
Algebra II Advanced expands on the concepts covered in on-level Algebra II with an intense focus on
high level application, problem solving, and higher order thinking processes. Students will also develop
strategies that prepare them for future Advanced Placement math courses.
Algebraic Reasoning - (1 credit)
Prerequisite: Algebra I
In Algebraic Reasoning, students will build on the knowledge and skills for mathematics in
Kindergarten-Grade 8 and Algebra I, continue with the development of mathematical reasoning related
to algebraic understandings and processes, and deepen a foundation for studies in subsequent
mathematics courses. Students will broaden their knowledge of functions and relationships, including
linear, quadratic, square root, rational, cubic, cube root, exponential, absolute value, and logarithmic
functions. Students will study these functions through analysis and application that includes
explorations of patterns and structure, number and algebraic methods, and modeling from data using
tools that build to workforce and college readiness such as probes, measurement tools, and software
tools, including spreadsheets.  Students who may be candidates for athletic scholarships should be
advised that this course may not meet minimum core requirements under NCAA guidelines.
Algebra II - (1 credit)
Prerequisite: Algebra I
In Algebra II, students will build on the knowledge and skills for mathematics in Kindergarten-Grade 8
and Algebra I to prepare students for 4th year math courses. This course is taught with a functional
approach giving students a sound foundation for either technical or non-technical degrees in college.
Students will broaden their knowledge of quadratic functions, exponential functions, and systems of
equations. Students will study polynomials, logarithmic, square root, cubic, cube root, absolute value,
rational functions, and their related equations. Students will connect functions to their inverses and
associated equations and solutions in both mathematical and real-world situations. In addition, students
will extend their knowledge of data analysis and numeric and algebraic methods.
Algebra II Advanced – (1 credit)
Prerequisite: Algebra I
Algebra II Advanced expands on the concepts covered in on-level Algebra II with an intense focus on
high level application, problem solving, and higher order thinking processes. Students will also develop
strategies that prepare them for future Advanced Placement math courses.
Statistics - (1 credit)
Prerequisite: Algebra II or concurrent enrollment in Algebra II
In Statistics, students will build on the knowledge and skills for mathematics in Kindergarten-Grade 8
and Algebra I. Students will broaden their knowledge of variability and statistical processes. Students
will study sampling and experimentation, categorical and quantitative data, probability and random
variables, inference, and bivariate data. Students will connect data and statistical processes to real-
world situations. In addition, students will extend their knowledge of data analysis.  It is recommended
that statistics be taken after Algebra II and/or during 12th grade.
Advanced Quantitative Reasoning - (1 credit)
Prerequisite:  Geometry and Algebra II
Advanced Quantitative Reasoning is a mathematics course for high school juniors and/ or seniors that
follows Algebra I, Geometry, and Algebra II. This course is a rigorous mathematics
class for students who intend to major in non-technical fields of study upon entering college. Students
will develop and apply skills necessary for college, careers, and life. Course content consists primarily
of applications of high school mathematics concepts to prepare students to become well-educated and
highly informed 21st century citizens. Students will develop and apply reasoning, planning, and
communication to make decisions and solve problems in applied situations involving numerical
reasoning through weighted averages, proportion, combinatorics, voting and selection process.
Students will gain understanding of probability and statistical reasoning by determining validity and
usefulness of statistical data as well as finance through analyzing models for expenditures, amortization
tables, and various types of loans and investments.  Other topics include modeling with algebra,
geometry, trigonometry, and discrete mathematics.  This course serves as an alternative to Pre-
Calculus. Students who have successfully passed Pre- Calculus are not eligible to take Advanced
Quantitative Reasoning. This course is not weighted for GPA purposes.
Pre-Calculus- (1 credit)
Prerequisite: Geometry and Algebra II
Pre-calculus is the preparation for calculus. The course approaches topics from a function point of view,
where appropriate, and is designed to strengthen and enhance conceptual understanding and
mathematical reasoning used when modeling and solving mathematical and real-world problems.  Pre-
Calculus is a detailed study of: linear, quadratic, polynomial, rational, exponential, logarithmic, and
trigonometric functions.  This course also covers sequences, series, vectors, and introductory
parametric functions. This course meets the minimum prerequisite requirement for AP Calculus AB.
This course is not recommended as a prerequisite for AP Calculus BC.
Pre-Calculus Advanced - (1 credit)
Prerequisite: Geometry and Algebra II
Pre-Calculus Advanced expands on the concepts covered in on-level Pre-Calculus.  This course is fast
paced and students will require excellent algebraic and problem solving skills to be successful in this
course.  Students will also develop strategies that prepare them for AP Calculus AB or AP Calculus BC.
Students successful in Pre-Calculus Advanced must be organized, committed, and eager to persevere
due to the fast paced, abstract nature of the course.  This course is the recommended prerequisite
requirement for either AP Calculus AB or AP Calculus BC.
Collin College Dual Credit Math: MATH 1314 College Algebra - (1/2 credit)
Prerequisite:  Algebra II, and meet eligibility requirements
College Algebra is an in-depth study of polynomial, rational, exponential, logarithmic functions, and
systems of equations using matrices. Additional topics such as sequences, series, probability, and
conics may be included. A graphing calculator is required. This course may qualify as 1/2 of the 4th
high school math credit as well as 3 college credit hours.
Collin College Dual Credit Math: MATH 1342 Elementary Statistical Methods – (1/2 credit)
Prerequisite: Algebra II and meet eligibility requirements
Elementary Statistical Methods is the collection, analysis, presentation and interpretation of data and
probability. Analysis includes descriptive statistics, correlation and regression, confidence intervals and
hypothesis testing. Graphing calculator required. Lab required.  This is a dual credit course and may
qualify as 1/2 of the 4th high school, math credit as well as 3 college credit hours.
Collin College Dual Credit Math: MATH 2412 Pre-Calculus Math – (1/2 credit)
Prerequisite: Dual Credit College Algebra (MATH 1314) and meet eligibility requirements
In-depth combined study of algebra, trigonometry, and other topics for calculus readiness. Graphing
calculator required. Lab required. 4 credit hours. This course may qualify as 1/2 of the 4th high school
math credit.
AP Calculus AB - (1 credit)
Prerequisite: Pre-Calculus
AP Calculus AB covers advanced mathematical topics including elementary differential and integral
calculus.  AP Calculus AB is approximately equivalent to a one-semester calculus course at the college
level.  This course is designed to prepare students for the College Board Advanced Placement Exam.
AP Calculus AB is not a prerequisite to AP Calculus BC.  AP Calculus AB is a college level course.
AP Calculus BC - (1 credit)
Prerequisite: Pre-Calculus
AP Calculus BC covers advanced mathematical topics including elementary differential and integral
calculus and their applications with polar, parametric, and vector functions.  Additionally, applications of
integral function, logistic models, polynomial approximations, and advanced sequences and series will
be studied.  AP Calculus BC is approximately equivalent to a two-semester calculus course at the
college level.  This course is designed to prepare students for the College Board Placement Exam.
This course can be taken in lieu of AP Calculus AB.  AP Calculus BC is a college level course.
AP Statistics - (1 credit)
Prerequisite: Algebra II
AP Statistics exposes students to four broad conceptual themes:  exploring data, planning a study,
anticipating patterns, and statistical inference.  Students should have excellent algebraic and problem
solving skills.  Extensive use of the graphing calculator to study statistical applications is emphasized.
This course is a college level course and is designed to prepare students for the College Board
Placement Exam.  AP Statistics is a college level course.
Collin College Dual Credit Math: MATH 2413 Calculus I – (1/2 credit)
Prerequisite: MATH 2412 and meet eligibility requirements
Calculus is a study of limits and continuity; the Fundamental Theorem of Calculus; definition of the
derivative of a function and techniques of differentiation; applications of the derivative to maximizing or
minimizing a function; the chain rule, mean value theorem, and rate of change problems; curve
sketching; definite and indefinite integration of algebraic, trigonometric, and transcendental functions,
with an application to calculation of area. Graphing calculator required. Lab included.  This credit
course may qualify as 1/2 of the 4th high school, math credit as well as 3 college credit hours.
Mathematics Lab - (1/2 to 1 credit)
Prerequisite: Teacher recommendation
This course is a supplement to the student’s grade-level math course and is taken in place of an
elective.  Math Lab provides a rich, supportive curriculum to assist students in mastering foundation
concepts through problem solving, reinforcement of skills, and the use of small group instruction.  This
class will provide students with additional support to help ensure success through the use of
individualized, targeted instruction and interventions.
College Readiness for Mathematics - (1 credit; can be the 4th math credit)
12th grade
Prerequisite:  Counselor Recommendation
The purpose of the College Readiness Mathematics course is to provide high school students an
opportunity to gain and demonstrate the necessary college readiness skills in mathematics to be
successful in college-level, credit-bearing courses without the need for remedial or developmental
coursework. This course is designed for 12th grade students whose coursework, End of Course
examination in Algebra I, and college readiness examination scores indicate that a student is not ready
to perform entry-level college coursework in mathematics. This course focuses on the study of relations
and functions, inequalities, and algebraic expressions and equations including linear, polynomial,
radical, and rational functions. Students will use these functions to model, interpret, and justify
mathematical ideas and concepts using multiple representations. Upon successful completion this
course can fulfill TSI requirements in mathematics. Entry into this course requires counselor
recommendation and may count for the fourth mathematics credit. Students who may be candidates for
athletic scholarships should be advised that this course may not meet minimum core requirements
under NCAA guidelines. Note that not completing Algebra II prevents a student from graduating with
the Distinguished Level of Achievement. Principles and Applied sections are not available for College
Readiness courses.
Biology - (1 credit)
Recommended Prerequisite: None
Biology is a course designed around the study of living things. This course emphasizes a variety of
topics such as functions of cells and viruses; growth and development of organisms; cells, tissues and
organs; nucleic acids and genetics; biological evolution; taxonomy; metabolism and energy transfers in
living organisms; ecosystems; living systems; homeostasis; ecosystems; and plants and the
environment.  Manipulative laboratory skills, skills in acquiring data, classification skills in ordering and
sequencing data, oral and written communication skills, along with career exploration will be stressed in
this course. This course will require an End of Course Exam for any student enrolled.
Biology Advanced - (1 credit)
Recommended Prerequisite: None
This course extends the biology concepts and TEKS with an emphasis on preparing students to take
AP Biology.  Biology Advanced will be a lab-oriented course designed for students exhibiting advanced
achievement levels in the biological sciences. This course shall exceed the content and depth of a
standard Biology course both in the classroom and laboratory experiences. Biology Advanced will strive
for higher levels of learning; creative thinking, and critical evaluation tenets such as analyzing,
synthesizing, and formulating logical conclusions. This course will require an End of Course Exam for
any student enrolled from the freshman class of 2011-2012 and beyond.
Chemistry - (1 credit)
Prerequisite: One unit of high school science and Algebra I
Recommended Co-requisite: Geometry
This course emphasizes a variety of topics that include: characteristics of matter, energy
transformations during physical and chemical changes; atomic structure; the periodic table of elements;
behavior of gases; bonding; nuclear fusion and nuclear fission; oxidation-reduction; chemical equations;
solutes; properties of solutions; acids and bases; and stoichiometric relationships. Chemistry is a
course that is oriented toward college preparation and is grounded in a laboratory approach to the
study of the matter.  Manipulative laboratory skills, skills in acquiring data, classification skills in
ordering and sequencing data, oral and written communication skills, along with career exploration will
be stressed in this course. Semesters must be completed in sequence (1st then 2nd).
Chemistry Advanced- (1 credit)
REQUIRED Prerequisite: One unit of high school science and Algebra I
Recommended Prerequisite: Geometry
Recommended Co-requisite: Algebra II
This course extends the chemistry concepts and TEKS with an emphasis on preparing students to take
AP Chemistry. Chemistry Advanced will be a lab-oriented course designed for students exhibiting
advanced achievement levels in the chemical sciences. This course shall exceed the content and depth
of a standard Chemistry course both in the classroom and laboratory experiences. Chemistry Advanced
will strive for higher levels of learning; creative thinking, and critical evaluation tenets such as analyzing,
synthesizing, and formulating logical conclusions.
Integrated Physics and Chemistry (IPC) - (1 credit)
Recommended Prerequisite: None
Integrated Physics and Chemistry is a survey lab course that reinforces the foundational knowledge
required for all subsequent physical science courses. Students conduct laboratory and field
investigations, use scientific methods during investigations, and make informed decisions using critical
thinking and scientific problem solving. This course integrates the disciplines of physics and chemistry
in the following topics: force, motion, energy, and matter.
Physics - (1 credit)
Recommended Prerequisite: Geometry
Recommended Co-requisite:  Algebra II
Physics is designed to provide a laboratory-oriented approach to the study of matter and energy. The
course provides for the development of understanding of the physical laws and devices that govern the
world around us. Topics of study include motion, forces, energy, momentum, thermodynamics, waves,
and modern physics. This course emphasizes the use of mathematics to solve problems.
AP Physics 1- (1 credit)
Recommended Prerequisite: Algebra II
Recommended Co-requisite: Pre-Calculus
NOTE: Students who have completed a year of physics are not allowed to take AP Physics 1
AP Physics 1 is equivalent to the first semester of a typical introductory, algebra-based college physics
course. Topics of study include Newtonian mechanics (including rotational motion); work, energy, and
power; mechanical waves and sound; and introductory, simple circuits. Emphasis is placed on student-
centered, inquiry-based instructional practices to develop scientific critical thinking and reasoning skills.
After taking AP Physics 1, students may choose to continue their study of physics in either AP Physics
2 or AP Physics C. This course is intended to prepare students to take the AP Physics 1 exam in order
to earn college course credit depending on exam score. This is a college level course.
Most of these courses would be taken as a fourth year science; however, they are available in earlier
grade levels, dependent on completion of prerequisites and counselor advising based on an individual
student’s graduation program and goals. Many students take two science courses in a single year.
Animal Science (1 credit, CTEC)
Prerequisites: 2 of 4 credits - Equine Science, Livestock Production, Small Animal Management, or Wildlife, Fisheries & Ecology Management, Survey of Agriculture, Food and Natural Resources
To be prepared for careers in the field of animal science, students need to attain academic skills and
knowledge, acquire knowledge and skills related to animal systems, and develop knowledge and skills
regarding career opportunities, entry requirements, and industry standards. To prepare for success,
students need opportunities to learn, reinforce, apply, and transfer their knowledge and skills in a
variety of settings. This course examines the interrelatedness of human, scientific, and technological
dimensions of livestock production. Instruction is designed to allow for the application of scientific and
technological aspects of animal science through field and laboratory experiences. This course may
qualify as a science credit.
Plant and Soil Science - (1 credit, CTEC)
Prerequisite: Horticultural Science or Landscape Design & Management
This course provides a way of learning about the natural world. Students should know how plant and
soil science has influenced a vast body of knowledge, that there are still applications to be discovered,
and that plant and soil science is the basis for many other fields of science. Investigations, laboratory
practices, and field exercises will be used to develop an understanding of current plant and soil
science. This course is designed to prepare students for careers in the food and fiber industry. Students
will learn, reinforce, apply, and transfer their knowledge in a scientific setting. Materials fee may be
required for this course. This course may qualify as a science credit.
Anatomy and Physiology - (1 credit)
Recommended Prerequisite: Biology and a second science credit
Anatomy and Physiology is a college preparatory and a laboratory-oriented course that will provide
opportunities for the student to observe anatomical structures and examine physiological systems.
Acquiring, classifying, and sequencing data; experiences in oral and written communication; and career
explorations are skills that will be addressed in this course. Students in this course may choose to take
courses in Health Science Technology.
Food Science (1 credit, CTE)
Prerequisites: Biology and Chemistry
In Food Science students conduct laboratory and field investigations, use scientific methods during
investigations, and make informed decisions using critical thinking and scientific problem solving. Food
Science is the study of the nature of foods, the causes of deterioration, the principles underlying food
processing, and the improvement of foods for the consuming public.  This is a course designed to help
students understand and integrate the knowledge, skills and practices of the Food Science industry
through the application of the biochemistry of food and nutrition. Materials fee may be required for this
course. This course may qualify as a science credit.
Forensic Science (1 credit, CTE)
Prerequisites:  Law Enforcement I, Biology & Chemistry
Forensic Science is a course that uses a structured and scientific approach to the investigation of
crimes of assault, abuse and neglect, domestic violence, accidental death, homicide, and the
psychology of criminal behavior. Students will learn terminology and investigative procedures related to
crime scene, questioning, interviewing, criminal behavior characteristics, truth detection, and scientific
procedures used to solve crimes. Using scientific methods, students will collect and analyze evidence
through case studies and simulated crime scenes such as fingerprint analysis, ballistics, and blood
spatter analysis. Students will learn the history, legal aspects and career options for forensic science.
This course may qualify as a science credit.
Medical Microbiology - (1 credit, CTE)
11th-12th Grade
Prerequisites: Biology, Chemistry and Anatomy & Physiology
Medical Microbiology is a college preparatory and laboratory-oriented course that will provide
opportunities for the student to identify and culture microorganisms that are of interest in the medical
field. The student will learn lab techniques for working safely with microorganisms and will investigate
the physiological effects of various microorganisms on the human body. The course is intended to
provide high school exposure to microbiology concepts for the students who are particularly interested
in a health-related career track or for the students who are interested in the biological sciences.
Materials fee are required for this course. This course may qualify as a science credit.
Pathophysiology - (1 credit, CTE)
Prerequisites: Biology, Chemistry and Anatomy & Physiology
Pathophysiology is a college preparatory and laboratory-oriented course that will provide opportunities
for the student to study the nature of disease, its causes, and the various affects diseases have on the
human body. The student will apply proper lab techniques to the study of healthy and diseased tissue
and be able to recognize samples of each. The course is intended for the student who is particularly
interested in a health-related career track or for the student who is interested in the biological sciences.
Materials fee is required for this course. This course may qualify as a science credit.
AP Biology - (1 credit)
Recommended Prerequisite: Biology and Chemistry
AP Biology is a course designed to be the equivalent of a college-level biology course.  This course will
provide students with the framework, factual knowledge and analytical skills necessary to deal with the
rapidly changing science of biology.  This course emphasizes topics such as microbiology,
biochemistry, genetics, evolution, organisms and their environment and includes extensive biological
laboratory experiences.  This course is intended to prepare students to take the AP Biology exam in
order to earn college course credit depending on exam score.  Students may complete an independent
research project. This is a college level course not appropriate as a first year biology course.
AP Chemistry - (1 credit)
Recommended Prerequisites: Chemistry & Algebra II
AP Chemistry is a course designed to cover material found in the college level general chemistry
course and is for the college-bound science/engineering/pre-veterinary/pre-medical/pre-dental student.
This course incorporates a more extensive quantitative understanding of the physical principles of
chemistry.  Major topics include electrochemistry, kinetics, thermodynamics and equilibrium. Advanced
laboratory investigations involving independent data analysis are a major part of this course.  This
course is intended to prepare students to take the AP Chemistry exam in order to earn college course
credit depending on exam score.  Students may complete an independent research project. This is a
college level course not appropriate as a first year chemistry course.
AP Physics 2 - (1 credit)
Recommended Prerequisite: Physics or AP Physics 1
Recommended Co-requisite: Pre-Calculus
AP Physics 2 is equivalent to the second semester of a typical introductory, algebra-based college
physics course. Topics of study include fluids, thermodynamics, electricity, magnetism, optics, and
topics in modern physics. Emphasis is placed on student-centered, inquiry-based instructional practices
to develop scientific critical thinking and reasoning skills. This course continues to develop a foundation
in physics for students interested in the life sciences, pre-medicine, and some applied sciences. This
course is intended to prepare students to take the AP Physics 2 exam in order to earn college course
credit depending on exam score. This is a college level course not appropriate as a first year physics
course.
AP Physics C - (2 credits)
Recommended Prerequisites: Physics or AP Physics 1 and Pre-Calculus
Recommended Co-requisite: AP Calculus
AP Physics C is a calculus-based physics course that ordinarily forms the first and second semesters of
the college sequence for students majoring in the physical sciences or engineering. Topics of study
include kinematics, dynamics, energy, momentum, rotation, gravitation, oscillation, electric force and
field, electric circuits, magnetic force and fields, and electromagnetic induction. Methods of calculus are
used wherever appropriate in formulating physical principles and in applying them to physical problems.
In addition to developing conceptual understanding, strong emphasis is placed on critical thinking and
reasoning skills. This course is intended to prepare students to take the AP Physics C: Mechanics and
AP Physics C: Electricity and Magnetism exams in order to earn college course credit depending on
exam scores. This is a college level course not appropriate as a first year physics course.
AP Environmental Science (1 credit)
Recommended Prerequisites: Biology, Chemistry, and Algebra I
AP Environmental Science (APES) is a lab-based, interdisciplinary science course equivalent to a
college level introductory environmental science course. The goal of APES is to provide students with
the scientific principles, concepts, and methodologies required to understand the interrelationships of
the natural world, to identify and analyze environmental problems both natural and man-made, to
evaluate the relative risks associated with these problems, and to examine alternative solutions. This
course is intended to prepare students to take the APES exam in order to earn college course credit
depending on exam score.  Students may complete an independent research project. This is a college
level course not appropriate as a first year science course.
Collin College Dual Credit Science: BIOL 1406 Biology for Science Majors I - (1/2 credit)
Prerequisites: Biology and Chemistry and Meet eligibility requirements
Lecture: Fundamental principles of living organisms will be studied, including physical and chemical
properties of life, organization, function, evolutionary adaptation, and classification. Concepts of
cytology, reproduction, genetics, and scientific reasoning are included. Lab: Laboratory activities will
reinforce the fundamental principles of living organisms including physical and chemical properties of
life, organization, function, evolutionary adaptation, and classification. Study and examination of the
concepts of cytology, reproduction, genetics, and scientific reasoning are included. Lab required. 4
credit hours. This course satisfies ½ credit toward the high school 4th year science requirement.
Collin College Dual Credit Science: BIOL 1407 Biology for Science Majors II - (1/2 credit)
Prerequisite: BIOL 1406 and meet eligibility requirements
Lecture: The diversity and classification of life will be studied, including animals, plants, protists, fungi,
and prokaryotes. Special emphasis will be given to anatomy, physiology, ecology, and evolution of
plants and animals. Lab: Laboratory activities will reinforce study of the diversity and classifications of
life, including animals, plants, protists, fungi, and prokaryotes. Special emphasis will be given to
anatomy, physiology, ecology, and evolution of plants and animals. Lab required. 4 credit
hours. This course satisfies ½ credit toward the high school 4th year science requirement.
Collin College Dual Credit Science: BIOL 1408 Biology for Non-Science Majors I - (1/2 credit)
Prerequisites: Biology and Chemistry and Meet eligibility requirements
Lecture: Provides a survey of biological principles with an emphasis on humans, including chemistry of
life, cells, structure, function, and reproduction. Lab: Laboratory activities will reinforce a survey of
biological principles with an emphasis on humans, including chemistry of life, cells, structure, function,
and reproduction. Lab required. 4 credit hours. This course satisfies ½ credit toward the high school 4th
year science requirement.
Collin College Dual Credit Science: BIOL 1409 Biology for Non-Science Majors II - (1/2 credit)
Prerequisite: BIOL 1408 and meet eligibility requirements
Lecture: This course will provide a survey of biological principles with an emphasis on humans,
including evolution, ecology, plant and animal diversity, and physiology. Lab: Laboratory activities will
reinforce a survey of biological principles with an emphasis on humans, including evolution, ecology,
plant and animal diversity, and physiology. Lab required. This course satisfies ½ credit toward the high
school 4th year science requirement.
Aquatics - (1 credit)
Required Prerequisite: Biology
Recommended Prerequisite/co-requisite:Chemistry
Aquatic science is the study a variety of topics that include: roles of cycles in an aquatic ecosystem;
geologic and fluid dynamics; components of aquatic ecosystems, fresh, salt and estuary; relationships
among aquatic habitats and ecosystems; changes within aquatic habitats and environments; and the
origin and use of water in a watershed.  It is a course in which students conduct field and laboratory
investigations, use scientific methods during investigations, and make informed decisions using critical
thinking and scientific problem solving.
Astronomy – (1 credit)
Recommended Prerequisite: Three units of science (3rd science credit may be taken
concurrently)
In Astronomy, students conduct laboratory and field investigations, use scientific methods, and make
informed decisions using critical thinking and scientific problem solving. Students study the following
topics: astronomy in civilization, patterns and objects in the sky, our place in space, the moon, reasons
for the seasons, planets, the sun, stars, galaxies, cosmology, and space exploration. Students will
utilize concepts from Biology, Chemistry, and Physics to acquire knowledge about astronomical
concepts, conduct observations of the sky, work collaboratively, and develop critical-thinking skills.
Environmental Systems - (1 credit)
Prerequisite: Biology and IPC or Chemistry
Environmental Systems is a course in which students study a variety of topics that include: biotic and
abiotic factors in habitats; ecosystems and biomes; interrelationships among resources and an
environmental system; sources and flow of energy through an environmental system; relationships
between carrying capacity and changes in populations and ecosystems; and changes in environments.
Students will conduct field and laboratory investigations, use scientific methods during investigations,
and make informed decisions using critical thinking and scientific problem solving.
Earth and Space Science - (1 credit)
REQUIRED Prerequisite: three units of science, one of which may be taken concurrently, and
three units of mathematics, one of which may be taken concurrently.
Earth and Space Science (ESS) is a capstone course that builds on prior scientific knowledge and skills
to provide high schools students an understanding of the Earth System. This course focuses on three
major science concepts: the Earth in Space and Time, Solid Earth, and Fluid Earth.  These concepts
would normally be found as topics among the sciences of geology, oceanography, meteorology,
cosmology, and astronomy. In ESS, students will apply and integrate the science concepts and
principles learned in previous grades, examine authentic situations that extend beyond the boundaries
of the classroom.  Students will engage in acquiring, processing, and analyzing scientific data and build
upon reading, writing, research, and quantitative skills learned in previous science courses.
Social Studies Courses
World Geography - (1 credit)
Prerequisite: None
World Geography is the study of the earth, its regions, and the people who live in these regions.
Students will study topography, weather, and climate of each region as well as the languages, customs,
and ways of living of the people who inhabit these regions. In addition, the interaction of people with the
environment and with each other will be studied. Students will become familiar with the relative
locations of the world’s continents, oceans, and countries and will learn to use maps, charts, graphs,
and other methods of research used by geographers.
AP Human Geography - (1 credit)
Prerequisite: none
This course combines the state requirements for World Geography with the Advanced Placement
Human Geography course. It is designed to allow 9th graders to develop the skills necessary to be
successful in Advanced Placement courses. This course introduces students to the patterns and
processes of the earth, its regions, and its people. In examining how people have interacted with the
earth over time, students will examine concepts such as culture, population, political organization,
cities, agriculture and land use, as well as industrialization and economic development.  They also learn
about the methods and tools geographers use in their science and practice. Students taking this course
should have strong reading and writing skills. Upon completion of this course, interested students will
also be eligible to take the national AP examination in May to earn college credit.
World History Studies - (1 credit)
Prerequisite: None
World History aims both to discover general knowledge about the development and diffusion of
civilization and to foster an appreciation that such knowledge is vitally important to understanding our
modern era. This course aims to develop students’ historical understanding, broaden their perspective
on world affairs and sharpen their critical thinking skills.
AP World History - (1 credit)
Prerequisite: None
AP World History is designed to develop greater understanding of the evolution of global processes and
contacts in interactions with different types of human societies. It highlights the nature of continuity and
change over time and offers global coverage of Africa, the Americas, Asia and Europe. The course
stresses the linkages between people and states formed through trade, the resultant migration of
people and ideas, the mobilizations of mass society, revolutions, and the impact of technology upon
humankind. This course combines the state requirements for World History and College Board World
History curriculum. This college level course will be both rigorous and rewarding and is open to all high
school students who are motivated and willing to do advanced work. It moves rapidly and covers a lot
of ground but teaches students skills needed to critically read, take notes and write historical essays.
Interested students would be eligible to take the AP examination in May to qualify to earn college credit.
GT Humanities II / AP World History - (1 credit)
Prerequisite: Identification / Selection as Gifted/Talented and GT Humanities I
GT Humanities I / English I Advanced and GT Humanities II / AP World History are courses that provide
gifted students with opportunities not available through on-level or advanced classes. The courses
combine English I Advanced with AP World History in a two-year interdisciplinary spiral. The basic
content is a historical study of the commonalities of the fine arts, including literature, the visual arts,
architecture, and music. Students will learn and practice the craft of writing through various products,
including AP style writing. Literature from a variety of world traditions will also be a key focus. Beginning
in 2016-17, ninth and tenth grade students will sit in the same class while earning credit in separate
courses; ninth graders will earn English I Advanced credit while tenth graders earn AP World History
credit. At the conclusion of GT Humanities II, students can sit for the AP World History exam to possibly
earn college credit. GT Humanities does NOT fulfill the fine arts requirement for graduation and is not
recognized as a fine arts course by TEA.
United States History - (1 credit)
Prerequisite: None
United States History covers the period after Reconstruction to the present and will include the
following: emergence of the United States as a world power, the economic development and growth of
the United States, and the social and cultural development of the United States. This course requires an
End of Course Exam for any student enrolled.
AP U.S. History - (1 credit)
Prerequisite: None
AP United States History is a college level course designed to give students the opportunity to study
the history and development of the United States in a more in-depth manner than on-level United
States History. The program prepares students for intermediate and advanced college courses by
making demands upon them equivalent to those made by full-year introductory college courses. The
content for this course emphasizes the Colonial-Revolutionary War Period, Constitutional Period, the
Age of Jackson, the Civil War and Reconstruction, the Progressive Era, the New Deal, and the
emergence of America as a world power after World War II. Students will learn to assess historical
materials -- their relevance to a given interpretive problem, reliability and their importance -- and to
weigh the evidence and interpretations presented in historical scholarship. Great emphasis is placed on
the intellectual, cultural and socioeconomic history of the United States. Students will also study and
analyze the politics and diplomacy of this country. Students will have the opportunity to take the
Advanced Placement Exam upon completion of the course. This course fulfills the graduation
requirement of U.S. History. This course covers the 11th grade standards (TEKS) in a different time
frame and sequence then on-level U.S. History. Students are strongly encouraged to complete both
semesters of AP U.S. History. Students that move from this course to on-level U.S. History during or at
the semester will have gaps in coverage of 11th grade standards (TEKS) potentially impacting
preparedness for TAKS or End of Course Test. This course will require an End of Course Exam.
GT American Studies - (2 credits)
Prerequisite: English II or equivalent and Identification/Selection as Gifted/Talented
GT American Studies combines AP Language and Composition with AP U.S. History through an
interdisciplinary integration of curriculum which allows for deeper connections between the two AP
courses. The course is a study of the development of the United States through the integration of
history, composition, literature, writing, art, architecture, philosophy, music, and theater. The course
focuses on the philosophical foundation of American thought while exploring themes of progression,
reconstruction, conflict, human rights, migration, perspective, and change. GT American Studies
integrates two Advanced Placement courses; therefore, the class is double blocked over the A day/B
day time block. Students will take the End of Course Exam for U.S. History. Students are also strongly
encouraged to take the Advanced Placement exams for Language and Composition and U.S. History.
Collin College Dual Credit US History: HIST 1302 U.S. History II – (1/2 credit)
11th grade
Prerequisite: Must meet eligibility requirements
A survey of the social, political, economic, cultural, and intellectual history of the United States from the
Civil War/Reconstruction period to the present. United States History II examines industrialization,
immigration, world wars, the Great Depression, Cold War, and post-Cold War eras. Themes that may
be addressed in United States History II include: American culture, religion, civil and human rights,
technological change, economic change, immigration and migration, urbanization and suburbanization,
the expansion of the federal government, and the study of U.S. foreign policy. 3 credit hours. This
course satisfies ½ credit of required high school US History credit and should be either paired with
HIST 1301. HIST 1302 is always taken in the Fall Semester, while 1301 would be completed the
previous summer or following Spring. Students completing HIST 1302 in fall semester are required to
take the Texas End of Course Exam (EOC) for US History in the December testing administration.
Collin College Dual Credit US History: HIST 1301 U.S. History I – (1/2 credit)
11th grade
Prerequisite: Must meet eligibility requirements
A survey of the social, political, economic, cultural, and intellectual history of the United States from the
pre-Columbian era to the Civil War/Reconstruction period. United States History I includes the study of
pre-Columbian, colonial, revolutionary, early national, slavery and sectionalism, and the Civil
War/Reconstruction eras. Themes that may be addressed in United States History I include: American
settlement and diversity, American culture, religion, civil and human rights, technological change,
economic change, immigration and migration, and creation of the federal government. 3 credit hours.
This course satisfies ½ credit of required high school US History credit and should be paired with HIST
1302. Students have the option to either take 1301 in the Summer or in the Spring, not Fall.   Students
taking dual credit US History are required to take the Texas End of Course Exam (EOC) for US History
in the December testing administration.
U.S. Government - (1/2 credit)
Prerequisite: None
United States Government provides an opportunity for students to study foundations of the United
States political system, development of the United States governmental system, the structure and
functions of the United States government, and the role of decision-making in civic affairs. US
Government is paired with Economics for a full credit.
AP U.S. Government - (1/2 credit)
Prerequisite: None
AP United States Government is a course designed to give students an analytical perspective on
government and politics in the United States. This course covers the constitutional foundations, political
beliefs and behaviors, political parties and interest groups that make up the US government. All areas
of the federal government – Congress, the presidency, bureaucracy, judiciary and civil liberties and civil
rights are studied. This course involves both the study of general concepts used to interpret US politics
and the analysis of specific case studies. It also requires familiarity with the various institutions, groups,
beliefs and ideas that constitute US political reality. Students will have the opportunity to take the AP
exam upon completion of this course. This is a college level course.
Collin College Dual Credit Government: GOVT 2305 Federal Government (1/2 credit)
Prerequisite: Meet eligibility requirements
Origin and development of the U.S. Constitution, structure and powers of the national government
including the legislative, executive, and judicial branches, federalism, political participation, the national
election process, public policy, civil liberties and civil rights. 3 credit hours. This course satisfies the
high school requirement of Government. Dual Credit Government is typically paired with Dual Credit
Economics for a full year credit.
Economics - (1/2 credit)
Prerequisite: None
Economics with Emphasis on the Free Enterprise System and Its Benefits emphasizes the American
free enterprise system, government in the American economic system, American economic system and
international economic relations, consumer economics, and social studies attitudes, values, and skills
for citizenship. Economics is paired with US Government for a full credit.
AP Macroeconomics - (1/2 credit)
Prerequisite: None
Rising interest rates, unemployment, taxes, government spending, saving, investing, the global
economy, all of these topics are included in the study of Macroeconomics. If you want to know how the
government affects the economy and how the economy will affect your future, then you need to take
this course. Students will have the opportunity to take the Advanced Placement exam upon completion
of this course. This course fulfills the graduation requirements of Economics. This is a college level
course.
Collin College Dual Credit Economics: ECON 2302 Principles of Microeconomics – (1/2 credit)
Prerequisite: Must meet eligibility requirements
Analysis of the behavior of individual economic agents, including consumer behavior and demand,
producer behavior and supply, price and output decisions by firms under various market structures,
factor markets, market failures, and international trade. 3 credit hours. This course fulfills the high
school requirement for Economics.
AP European History - (1 credit)
Prerequisite: None
AP European History is a course designed to provide opportunities for students to study the history and
development of European cultures and ideas in an in-depth manner. The program prepares students
for intermediate and advanced college courses by making demands upon them equivalent to those
made by full-year introductory college courses. Significant emphasis is given to questions in
intellectual-cultural and social-economic history, as well as to those in the more traditional political-
diplomatic sphere. Students are expected to demonstrate knowledge of basic chronology and major
events and trends from the High Renaissance to the present. In addition to understanding the principal
themes in European history, the students will develop their ability to analyze historical events, to assess
historical materials, and to weigh the evidence and interpretations presented in historical scholarship.
Students will have the opportunity to take the Advanced Placement Exam upon completion of the
course. This is an elective course and cannot be substituted for the graduation requirement of World
History. This is a college level course.
AP Psychology - (1/2 credit)
10th - 12th grade
Prerequisite: None
Advanced Placement Psychology is a one-semester college-level course that addresses such
questions as it surveys the field of psychology from research into human behavior to the application of
its findings in treatment. The course itself will have a theoretical and a practical emphasis. On the
theoretical side, you will gain knowledge of psychological concepts and principles. On the practical
side, you will be expected to demonstrate how these ideas can be applied in everyday matters of
human activity. This requires not only a thorough understanding of the material beyond textbook
definitions, but an active participation in class discussions and activities. Note: As of 2015 the new
MCAT (Medical College Admissions Test) will require a section on the “Psychological, Social, and
Biological Foundations of Behavior”.  AP Psychology would provide a strong foundation for students
interested in the medical field.
Collin College Dual Credit Elective: GOVT 2306 Texas Government – (1/2 credit)
Prerequisite: Meet eligibility requirements
Origin and development of the Texas Constitution, structure and powers of the state and local
government, federalism and inter-governmental relations, political participation, the election process,
public policy and the political culture of Texas. 3 credit hours. This course satisfies ½ elective credit
toward high school graduation and is mandatory if working towards an Associate Degree.
Collin College Dual Credit Elective: SOCI 1301 Introduction to Sociology (1/2 credit)
Prerequisite: Meet eligibility requirements
The scientific study of human society, including ways in which groups, social institutions, and
individuals affect each other. Causes of social stability and social change are explored through the
application of various theoretical perspectives, key concepts, and related research methods of
sociology. Analysis of social issues in their institutional context may include topics such as social
stratification, gender, race/ethnicity, and deviance. 3 credit hours. This course satisfies ½ elective credit
toward high school graduation.
Collin College Dual Credit Elective:  EDUC1300 – Education- Learning Framework - (1/2 credit)
10th -12th grade
Prerequisite: Meet eligibility requirements
A study of the 1) research and theory in the psychology of learning, cognition, and motivation, 2) factors
that impact learning, and 3) application of learning strategies. Theoretical models of strategic learning,
cognition, and motivation serve as the conceptual basis for the introduction of college-level student
academic strategies. Students use assessment instruments (e.g. learning inventories) to help them
identify their own strengths and weaknesses as strategic learners. Students are ultimately expected to
integrate and apply the learning skills discussed across their own academic programs and become
effective and efficient learners. Students developing these skills should be able to continually draw from
the theoretical models they have learned. 3 credit hours. This course satisfies ½ elective credit toward
high school graduation. Students who have taken high school Psychology may enroll in this dual credit
course. This course is a requirement to earn an Associate Degree.
Personal Financial Literacy - (1/2 credit)
Prerequisite:  None
Personal Financial Literacy will develop citizens who have the knowledge and skills to make sound,
informed financial decisions that will allow them to lead financially secure lifestyles and understand
personal financial responsibility.  Students will apply critical-thinking and problem-solving skills to
analyze decisions involving earning and spending, saving and investing, credit and borrowing, insuring
and protecting, and college and post-secondary education and training.
Sociology - (1/2 credit)
10th - 12th grade
Prerequisite:  None
Sociology is an upper-level academic elective.  The understanding of sociology as the scientific and
systematic study of human behavior observed through patterns will be accomplished using the
following methods: textbook reading, mastering sociological concepts and definitions, participating in
class discussions, teacher lecturing, role playing, and small group activities. Students should be self-
motivated and comfortable in participating in classroom discussions. Students will be required to
research a current social problem and present findings.
Psychology - (1/2 credit)
10th - 12th grade
Prerequisite: None
Psychology encompasses broad areas of study about human behavior and it enables the students to
better understand themselves and others. The goal of this course is to create active intellectual and
emotional involvement by the student, not only in learning about the science of psychology, but in life
as well. It is a one semester elective course.
African American Studies – (1 credit)
10th-12th Grade
Prerequisite: None
In Ethnic Studies: African American Studies, an elective course, students learn about the history and
cultural contributions of African Americans. This course develops an understanding of the historical
roots of African American culture, especially as it pertains to social, economic, and political interactions
within the broader context of United States history. It requires an analysis of important ideas, social and
cultural values, beliefs, and traditions. Knowledge of past achievements provides citizens of the 21st
century with a broader context within which to address the many issues facing the United States.
AP Seminar Course - (1 credit)
10th - 12th grade
Prerequisite: None
AP Seminar is a foundational course that engages students in cross-curricular conversations that
explore the complexities of academic and real-world topics and issues by analyzing divergent
perspectives. Using an inquiry framework, students practice reading and analyzing articles, research
studies, and foundational literary and philosophical texts; listening to and viewing speeches,
broadcasts, and personal accounts; and experiencing artistic works and performances. Students learn
to synthesize information from multiple sources, develop their own perspectives in research based
written essays, and design and deliver oral and visual presentations, both individually and as part of a
team. Students will complete various assessments throughout the year to earn an Advanced Placement
Exam score that may allow them to earn college credit. Students who earn scores of 3 or higher in AP
Seminar and AP Research will receive the AP Seminar and Research Certificate© signifying their
attainment of college-level academic and research skills. In addition, students who earn a 3 or higher in
four additional AP Courses will receive the AP Capstone Diploma©. Students receive a GPA weighted
credit as with all other AP courses. Note: This course cannot be dropped until semester. The Exam Fee
for this course $143. For further information, please consult the College Board Website:
https://lp.collegeboard. org/ap-capstone. Starting with the class of 2021, this course will satisfy the high
school speech credit requirement.
AP Seminar: Multicultural Section  A designated section of this course will be utilizing curriculum
related to multicultural studies. Students will continue to select topics of interest related to the African
diaspora, Latin American studies, Asian American studies, and related multicultural topics.
AP Research Course - (1 credit)
Prerequisite: Successful Completion of AP Seminar
AP Research allows students to deeply explore an academic topic, problem, or issue of individual
interest. Through this exploration, students design, plan, and conduct a year-long research based
investigation to address a research question. In the AP Research course, students further their skills
acquired in the AP Seminar course by understanding research methodology; employing ethical
research practices; and accessing, analyzing, and synthesizing information as they address a research
question. Students explore their skill development, document their processes,
and curate the artifacts of the development of their scholarly work in a portfolio. The course culminates
in an academic paper of approximately 4000–5000 words (accompanied by a performance or exhibition
of product where applicable) and a presentation with an oral defense. Students will complete various
assessments throughout the year to earn an Advanced Placement Exam score that may allow them to
earn college credit. Students who earn scores of 3 or higher in AP Seminar and AP Research will
receive the AP Seminar and Research Certificate© signifying their attainment of college-level academic
and research skills. In addition, students who earn a 3 or higher in four additional AP Courses will
receive the AP Capstone Diploma©. The Exam Fee for this course $143. For further information,
please consult the College Board Website: https://lp.collegeboard.org/ap-
capstonehttps://lp.collegeboard.org/ap-capstone
Art I - (1 credit)
Prerequisite: None
Art I is an introductory course in which students will learn how to use the elements and principles of art
to create a variety of two and three dimensional art (art production). Media explored will include but will
not be limited to, drawing, painting, printmaking, sculpture, ceramics, and fibers. Students will also be
introduced to the historical and cultural influences on art (art history). They will explore the philosophical
nature of art (aesthetics) and students will learn to make critical judgments about art (art criticism). Art 1
is a yearlong course in which first semester skills are needed to be successful in semester two.
Students are required to purchase a specific list of supplies. Supplies must be purchased during the
first 2 weeks of school to remain in the class.
Art I Advanced - (1 credit)
Prerequisite:  None
Art I Advanced may be substituted for Art I. Art I curriculum will be covered however students will be
required to produce work at a more advanced level both in quality and quantity. This course is designed
specifically to challenge the student that has had 2-3 years of middle school art credit and / or is
intending to pursue the more rigorous AP Studio Art classes. Students will learn what will be expected
of them for the AP Portfolio Examination. Students are required to purchase a specific list of supplies.
Supplies must be purchased during the first 2 weeks of school to remain in the class.
Art II - (1 credit)
Prerequisite: Art I - Art I Advanced
Art II offers instruction in a variety of media and techniques and builds on the skills and information
learned in Art I. Emphasis is on skill building and creative problem solving however, art history,
aesthetics, and art criticism will also be addressed. Art II is an intensive year long course in basic
drawing, design, and painting with some three dimensional work designed to challenge the students
who are planning to take advanced art classes. First semester skills are needed to be successful in
semester two. Students are required to purchase a specific list of supplies. Supplies must be purchased
during the first 2 weeks of school to remain in the class.
Art II Advanced - (1 credit)
Prerequisite:  Art I - Art I Advanced recommended
The Art II Advanced curriculum is designed to spiral and expand the Art I or Art I Advanced curriculum.
The Art II Advanced coursework follows College Board outlines for advanced placement studio
portfolios.  Student will apply the elements and principles of art in all compositions to a greater
proficiency than other Art II students as well as connect art history and criticism to those productions.
Students will develop skills in drawing and color theory application beyond the average Art II student as
they continue reviewing requirements of the AP examination.  Students extend learning through higher
expectations in painting, printmaking, technology, sculpture and ceramics.  Art II Advanced is an honors
credit class recommended for students seriously looking at visual art career.  It will begin preparing and
focusing students on developing breadth pieces used in the AP portfolio.  Students are required to
purchase a specific list of supplies. Supplies must be purchased during the first 2 weeks of school and
will remain in the class.
Art II Ceramics - (1 credit)
Prerequisite: Art I - Art 1 Advanced
This accelerated course in ceramic techniques will address the history of ceramics, modeling, molding,
casting, carving construction and assemblage. This course will also cover throwing on the wheel, kiln
firing, primitive firing, glaze chemistry and surface design. Further, exhibition, portfolio development,
and development of a series or collection of ceramic work related to central concept will be a goal.
Students are required to purchase a specific list of supplies or pay a supply fee. Supplies must be
purchased during the first 2 weeks of school remain in the class.
Art III-IV - (1 credit)
Prerequisite: Art II/III
Art III and IV are intensive year long courses that continue instruction in a variety of media and
techniques and are designed for the student who is seriously interested in the practical experience of
art. Emphasis is on skill building and creative problem solving however, art history, aesthetics, and art
criticism will also be addressed. The course is oriented toward exhibitions and competitions and the
development of individual artistic strengths and interests. Emphasis is on skill building and creative
problem solving however, art history, aesthetics, and art criticism will also be addressed. First semester
skills are needed to be successful in semester two. Students are required to purchase a specific list of
supplies. Supplies must be purchased during the first 2 weeks of school to remain in the class.
AP Studio Art-Drawing - (1 credit)
Recommended Prerequisite: Art I Advanced  or Art II Advanced
Studio Art is a rigorous college level drawing portfolio class designed for students who are seriously
interested in the practical experience of art. This College Board Program provides the only national
standard for performance in the visual arts that allows students to earn college credit and/or advanced
placement while still in high school. First year AP Art students prepare a Drawing Portfolio.The portfolio
requires actual examples and digital images of student artwork within a three-section structure of
Range of Approaches, Sustained Investigation and Selected Works. Students are required to purchase
a specific list of supplies, and a matting fee. Additional supply cost may also be incurred. Supplies for
AP will overlap with students enrolled in Art II, III, and IV. Supplies must be purchased during the first 2
weeks of school to remain in the class. Matting fees must be turned in by the end of the first nine
weeks. If possible, students should take AP Art with an on-level Art III/IV class to allow for enough time
to complete the portfolio requirements submitted to College Board.  AP students are given the
opportunity to submit a portfolio exam to the College Board for college credit.
AP Art History - (1 credit)
10th – 12th grade
Prerequisite: None (World, European or U.S. History recommended)
AP Art History is a yearlong college level course designed to introduce students to the rich traditions of
western and non-European architecture, sculpture, painting and other art forms. Through factual
knowledge, exploration of aesthetic principles and comparative criticism students strive to interpret and
evaluate the visual communication of past ages and distant cultures while gaining insight into the
motivation, inspiration and environment of each era. AP students are given the opportunity to take the
College Board exam for college credit.
AP Studio Art 2D- Design - (1 credit)
Prerequisites: Art I Advanced or Art II Advanced recommended
Advanced Placement Studio Art Design portfolios is a rigorous course designed for students who are
seriously interested in the practical experience of art. This College Board Program provides the only
national standard for performance in the visual arts that allows students to earn college credit and/or
advanced placement while still in high school.  Both portfolios require actual examples and electronic
submissions of student artwork within a structure of Range of Approaches, Sustained Investigation and
Selected Works.   Students are required to purchase a specific list of supplies and a matting fee.
Additional supply costs may also be incurred. Supplies for AP Art will overlap with the students enrolled
in Art III and IV. Supplies must be purchased during the first 2 weeks of school to remain in the class. If
possible, students should take AP Art with a on-level Art III/IV class to allow for enough time to
complete the portfolio requirements submitted to College Board.  AP students are given the opportunity
to submit a portfolio exam to the College Board for college credit.
AP Studio Art 3D- Design - (1 credit)
Prerequisites:  AP Studio Art 2D Design (recommended)
Advanced Placement Studio Art Design portfolios are designed for students who are seriously
interested in the practical experience of art. This College Board Program provides the only national
standard for performance in the visual arts that allows students to earn college credit and/or advanced
placement while still in high school.   Both portfolios require actual examples and electronic
submissions of student artwork within a three-section structure of Range of Approaches, Sustained
Investigation and Selected Works. Students are required to purchase a specific list of supplies and a
matting fee. Additional supply costs may also be incurred. Supplies for AP Art will overlap with the
students enrolled in Art III and IV.  If possible, students should take AP Art with a on-level Art class to
allow for enough time to complete the portfolio requirements submitted to College Board.
Floral Design - (1 credit)
10th - 12th grade
Prerequisite: None
This is an activity-based course structured to prepare students in the production of specialized floral
designs, identify and classify plants and flowers, and use artistic elements of design to create personal
floral arrangements. Students will develop knowledge and skills that enable them to understand the
business practices used in the floral design industry as well as providing the opportunity for students to
expand their leadership skills in the FFA organization. A materials fee is required for this course and
successful completion of both semesters of this course may fulfill the fine arts credit required for
graduation. This course provides the necessary training and instruction for students to participate in
testing for the Texas State Florist’s Certification. Materials fee may be required for this course. This
course may count as a Fine Arts credit.
Band - (1 credit)
Prerequisite: Audition and Teacher recommendation
Band is a full year course concentrating on the continued development of fundamental wind and
percussion skills. Students will be exposed to many styles of music through rehearsal and
performances throughout the year.  Participating in fall marching band allows students to waive ½ credit
of the required P.E. credits. Students enrolling in any band course are required to participate in
marching band. Special exceptions to this may only be considered in extenuating health related
circumstances and must be discussed directly with the program director and campus principal or their
designee for consideration. Additional expenses for supplies will be incurred. A balanced focus on both
individual and ensemble development occurs throughout both semesters.
Instrumental Ensemble Band - (1 credit)
Prerequisite: Audition and Teacher recommendation
Instrumental ensemble is a full year course that serves as the double block for band courses.  The
concentration of this course is a continuation of the curricular development happening in the band
program.  Exceptions to the Instrumental Ensemble course expectation must be discussed with the
band director and campus principal or designee.
Music Theory - (1 credit)
Prerequisite: Application
Music Theory I is a composition-based study of the mechanics of music. May include instruction in use
of music software in the Music Theory Computer Lab, an introduction to music history, fundamental
piano skills, and basic ear training.
AP Music Theory - (1 credit)
Prerequisite: Music Theory I or teacher recommendation
AP Music Theory is a composition-based course in the advanced study of music. This college level
course implements detailed notation, terminology, the reading and writing skills of harmony, analysis,
aural skills, and sight singing.
Instrumental Ensemble Orchestra - (1 credit)
Prerequisite: Audition and teacher recommendation
Instrumental ensemble is a full year course that serves as the double block for orchestra courses on
campuses where offered. Please check with the program director to see if this option is available at the
campus where you are assigned. The concentration of this course is a continuation of the curricular
development happening in the orchestra program. Exceptions to the Instrumental Ensemble course
expectation must be discussed with the orchestra director and campus principal or designee.
Orchestra - (1 credit)
Prerequisite: Audition and teacher recommendation
Orchestra is a full year course concentrating on the continued development of string performance skills.
The rehearsal and performance schedules are demanding, including outside of school practices,
contests, sectionals, and concerts. Additional expenses for supplies will be incurred. A balanced focus
on both individual and ensemble development occurs throughout both semesters.
Choir - (1 credit)
Prerequisite: None
Choir is a full year course concentrating on the development of vocal performance technique and
musicianship.  Students will be exposed to many styles of music through rehearsal and performance
throughout the year.  Students will perform primarily as a group with opportunities for solo performance,
if desired. Additional expenses for supplies will be incurred.
Vocal Ensemble - (1 credit)
Prerequisite: Teacher Recommendation
Vocal ensemble is a full year course that serves as the double block for choir courses on campuses
where offered. Please check with the program director to see if this option is available at the campus
where you are assigned. The concentration of this course is a continuation of the curricular
development happening in the choral program. Exceptions to the Vocal Ensemble course expectation
must be discussed with the choir director and campus principal or designee.
Theatre Arts I - (1 credit)
Prerequisite: None
Theatre Arts I general areas of study include but are not exclusive to the following: performance skills of
improvisation, pantomime, mime, voice and diction, stage movement and acting. Additional areas
explored are history of the theatre and careers in theatre. Technical aspects discussed are design
concepts of lighting, sound, scenery, props, makeup, costumes and publicity. Students will be involved
in many performance projects each grading period and written and visual projects throughout the year.
Students are required to purchase a specific list of supplies determined by the program director.  Some
required aspects of this course may occur outside of the school day.
Intermediate Theatre Arts I - (1 credit)
Prerequisite: Middle School Theatre and teacher recommendation
Intermediate Theatre Arts I may be substituted for Theatre Arts I. It is an intensive course in acting
styles, stage composition, voice and diction, script analysis, theatre history, and technical theatre
designed to challenge the student having 2-3 years of middle school theatre arts credit. Students will be
involved in many performance projects each grading period and written and involved visual projects
throughout the year. Some required aspects of this course may occur outside of the school day. Please
check with the campus program director for enrollment details pertaining to this class.  Students are
required to purchase a specific list of supplies determined by the program director.
Theatre Arts II - (1 credit)
Prerequisite: Theatre Arts I and teacher recommendation
Theatre Arts II is a continuation of Theatre Arts I with special emphasis on advanced acting styles and
techniques and critical analysis of scripts and characters. Students will also continue their study of
improvisation as it enhances character analysis, pantomime, mime, voice and diction, audition
techniques and production techniques. Some required aspects of this course may occur outside of the
school day. Students are required to purchase a specific list of supplies determined by the program
director.
Theatre Arts III - IV - (1 credit)
Prerequisite: Theatre Arts II and teacher recommendation
Areas of study in Theatre Arts III and IV rotate each year so that all are covered by end of the 4- year
and include such as contemporary and classical acting styles and techniques, exploration and analysis
of representative plays from each period of history, history of film, puppetry, dance and masked theatre,
playwriting and other specialize production techniques. All students will be involved in many
performances, written and visual projects throughout the year. This class is designed for the student
who wishes to seriously study and apply the theory of acting. Primarily students enrolled in this class
are the same ones who comprise a large percentage of the acting companies of the departmental
productions. Some required aspects of this course may occur outside of the school day. Students are
required to purchase a specific list of supplies determined by the program director.
Technical Theatre I - (1 credit)
Prerequisite: None
Technical Theatre I general areas of study include, but are not exclusive to the following: principles of
costume, makeup, scenery, lighting and sound design and application, and general stagecraft skills.
Additional areas explored are history of the theatre and careers in the theatre. Students will be involved
in many design projects in each grading period and written projects and tests throughout the year.
Intermediate Technical Theatre I - (1 credit)
Prerequisite: MS Theatre Arts and teacher recommendation
Intermediate Technical Theatre I may be substituted for Technical Theatre Arts I. It is an intensive
course in theatrical design and application, stage management, stagecraft, technical script analysis,
and theatre history designed to challenge the students having 2-3 years of middle school theatre arts
credit. Students will be involved in many design projects in each grading period, and written projects
and tests throughout the year.  Some required aspects of this course may occur outside of the school
day. Students are required to purchase a specific list of supplies determined by the program director.
Please check with the campus program director for enrollment details pertaining to this class.
Technical Theatre II - (1 credit)
Prerequisite: Technical Theatre I and teacher recommendation
Technical Theatre II is a continuation of Technical Theatre I with special emphasis on advanced theatre
design, moderate to advanced stage craft skills, and stage management. Students will also continue
their study of script analysis and begin working on period styles and architecture of specific time
periods. Students will begin creating a portfolio of their design work.  Some required aspects of this
course may occur outside of the school day.  Students are required to purchase a specific list of
supplies determined by the program director.
Technical Theatre III-IV - (1 credit)
Prerequisite: Technical Theatre II and teacher recommendation
Areas of study in Technical Theatre III-IV include advanced stagecraft and design implementation.
Emphasis will be placed on lab work, creation of technical theatre portfolio, leadership skills and
exploration and analysis of play styles and history of architecture and costuming. All students will be
involved in many projects, both written and visual, throughout the year. This class is designed for the
student who wishes to seriously study and apply the theory of stage design. Primarily students enrolled
in this class are the same ones who comprise a large percentage of the technical crews of the
departmental productions.  Some required aspects of this course may occur outside of the school day.
Students are required to purchase a specific list of supplies determined by the program director.
Theatre Production I-IV - (1 credit)
Prerequisite: Theatre 1 or Technical Theatre I, Audition
A full year course for advanced theatre students that explores various production aspects of the art of
Theatre. This class is largely project based and may require production hours outside of class as a
component of the student’s grade. Please check with the program director for more information and to
see if this option is available at the campus where you are assigned.
Dance I – Fundamentals - (1 credit)
Prerequisite: None
Dance Fundamentals is a yearlong course offered for fine arts credit.  Students participate actively in
the learning of fundamental dance skills. Various disciplines of dance are explored including jazz,
ballet/lyrical and modern dance. Students engage in the training of basic dance skills, choreographic
projects, video studies and dance history. This class is for the student with no prior dance training. This
course involves both anaerobic and aerobic activity. The students are required to wear appropriate and
approved dance attire and dance shoes. Purchase of dance attire is the responsibility of the student.
Students may earn a fine arts credit and P.E. substitution credit for enrollment in this course.  UIL
athletes may not take this course, due to UIL regulations.
Dance II – Technique - (1 credit)
Prerequisite: Dance I
Students in Dance Technique will earn fine arts credit and for this yearlong course. Various disciplines
of dance are explored including jazz, ballet/lyrical and modern dance with the focus on the technical
mastery of basic to intermediate skills. Students engage in choreographic projects, video studies and
dance history. This course involves both anaerobic and aerobic activity. The students are required to
wear appropriate dance attire and dance shoes. Purchase of dance attire is the responsibility of the
student.
Dance III – Intermediate - (1 credit)
Prerequisite: Dance II and Instructor Approval
Students in Intermediate Dance will earn fine arts credit for this yearlong course. Various disciplines of
dance are explored including jazz/hip-hop, ballet/lyrical and modern/stylized dance with the focus on
the technical mastery and performance of intermediate to semi-advanced skills. Students engage in
intense choreographic projects, video studies and dance history. This class is for the student with
adequate formal training. This course involves both anaerobic and aerobic activity. The students are
required to wear appropriate dance attire and dance shoes. Purchase of dance attire is the
responsibility of the student.
Dance IV - Advanced - (1 credit)
Prerequisite: Dance III and Instructor Approval
Students in Advanced Dance will earn fine arts credit and for this yearlong course. Various disciplines
of dance are explored including jazz/hip-hop, ballet/lyrical and modern/stylized dance with the focus on
the technical mastery and performance of advanced skills. Students engage in intense choreographic
projects, video studies, dance history and peer instruction. This class is for the student with highly
developed dance skills. This course involves both anaerobic and aerobic activity. The students are
required to wear appropriate dance attire and dance shoes. Purchase of dance attire is the
responsibility of the student.
Dance Team Training - (1 credit)
Prerequisite: None
Students in Dance Team Training will earn fine arts credit for this yearlong course. This course
prepares the student to audition for Dance Team. Students will work on flexibility, muscular strength
and endurance and technical skills training through precision and stylized dance. This course involves
both anaerobic and aerobic activity. The students are required to wear appropriate dance attire and
dance shoes. Students will perform in the Spring Dance Concert. Students may earn a fine arts credit
and P.E. substitution credit for this course.
Performing Dance Team - (1 credit)
Prerequisite: Audition Tryouts by Judges
To enroll in this class, the student must have been selected a member of the team during spring try-
outs. During the fall semester students will work on flexibility, anaerobic and aerobic activity, muscular
strength and endurance, and technical skills training through precision dance in preparation for football
halftime performances, pep rallies and special performances. During the spring semester, students will
focus on dance as an art, exploring movement in various forms of dance and preparing for competition
and show performances. Many practice hours in addition to the school day are required for
membership. (Students will incur some expenses for uniforms, supplies, etc.) Students will earn a fine
arts credit and P.E. substitution credit for enrollment in this course.
Color Guard (1 credit)
Prerequisite: Audition and Teacher Recommendation
Color Guard is a full year course concentrating on the continued development of fundamental marching
rifle and flag, and other equipment skills. This is a performance class where the basics of movement,
dance and use of equipment are taught. The rehearsal and performance schedules are demanding,
including outside-of-school practices, football games, contests, performances. Additional expenses for
uniforms and supplies will be incurred. Students enrolling in Color Guard are required to participate in
conjunction with the marching band. A balanced focus on both individual and group development
occurs throughout both semesters. Students may earn a fine arts credit and PE substitution credit for
enrollment in this course.
Spanish I - (1 credit)
Prerequisite: none
Spanish I focuses on developing students' ability to communicate using the Spanish language. The
course is primarily taught in Spanish in order to improve comprehension skills. Students are also
expected to participate fully in Spanish and use as little English as possible. As novice language
learners, students will communicate using words, phrases, and simple sentences. Throughout the year
students will participate in conversations on a variety of familiar topics such as their interests, family,
school, and community. Assessments are aimed at determining students’ ability to communicate with
the language and are focused on listening, speaking, reading, and writing.
Spanish II - (1 credit)
Prerequisite: Spanish I
Spanish II continues to develop students’ ability to communicate using the Spanish language. The
course is primarily taught in Spanish to help students continue to improve their listening and reading
skills.  Students are expected to communicate fully in Spanish as well.  Their communication will still
consist mainly of familiar words, phrases and simple sentences.  Students will be able to express their
thoughts and opinions on a variety of topics. Assessments continue to focus on the communicative
skills of listening, speaking, reading, and writing.  This course prepares students for continued language
learning in the Spanish III Advanced course.
Spanish II Advanced - (1 credit)
Prerequisite: Spanish I
Spanish II Advanced deepens and advances the curriculum of Spanish II. Students will be able to
express meaning in straightforward and personal contexts and understand information from simple
connected statements. Students are generally understood by people accustomed to dealing with
language learners. Students will continue to acquire and discover the target language through
speaking, listening, reading, and writing activities. This course allows the students to begin
communicating in a target language environment. The majority of this course is conducted in the target
language.
*Note- This course is being phased out and is only available to students with graduation dates of 2024
or earlier.  This course includes the same objectives and assessments as Spanish II.
Spanish III – (1 credit)
Prerequisite: Spanish II
Students in Spanish III will be able to express meaning in a variety of contexts and understand
information from connected statements. Students are generally understood by people accustomed to
dealing with language learners. Students will continue to acquire and discover the target language
through speaking, listening, reading, and writing activities. This course allows the students to
communicate in a target language environment at an intermediate level. The teachers and the students
will interact primarily in the target language.
Spanish III Advanced– (1 credit)
10th – 12th grade
Prerequisite: Spanish II (highly recommend Spanish II Advanced)
Spanish III Advanced prepares students to take Spanish IV AP. This course focuses on delivery of
content through thematic units while expanding on relevant vocabulary and refining the accuracy of
expression by knowing the components of language. This course begins to incorporate the 6 AP
themes within the units of study and makes connections between the themes and real-world
applications. The focus of this course is developing intermediate-mid proficiency. This course is held in
the target language.
AP Spanish IV – (1 credit)
Prerequisite: Spanish III (highly recommend Spanish III Advanced)
Spanish IV AP is designed to provide high school students with a learning experience equivalent to that
of an upper-intermediate college course. Students will learn language structures in context and use
them to convey meaning as well as explore Spanish culture in both contemporary and historical
contexts. Students will be expected to demonstrate their knowledge of the target culture, incorporate
interdisciplinary topics, make cultural comparisons, and actively communicate in a variety of settings
and contexts. This course is held in the target language. Students are highly encouraged to take the
Spanish Language and Culture Advanced Placement Exam for possible college credit at the conclusion
of this course.
AP Spanish V – (1 credit)
Prerequisite: Level IV AP
Spanish V AP is designed to provide high school students with a learning experience equivalent to that
of an introductory college course in literature written in Spanish. The course introduces students to the
formal study of texts from Peninsular Spanish, Latin American, and U.S. Hispanic literature. Students
will demonstrate proficiency in Spanish across the three modes of communication (interpersonal,
interpretive, and presentational) with special attention to critical reading and analytical writing. This
course is held in the target language. Students are highly encouraged to take the Spanish Literature
and Culture Advanced Placement Exam for possible college credit at the conclusion of this course.
French I - (1 credit)
Prerequisite: none
French I focuses on developing students' ability to communicate using the French language. The
course is primarily taught in French in order to improve comprehension skills. Students are also
expected to participate fully in French and use as little English as possible. As novice language
learners, students will communicate using words, phrases, and simple sentences. Throughout the year
students will participate in conversations on a variety of familiar topics such as their interests, family,
school, and community. Assessments are aimed at determining students’ ability to communicate with
the language and are focused on listening, speaking, reading, and writing.
French II - (1 credit)
Prerequisite: French I
French II continues to develop students’ ability to communicate using the French language. The course
is primarily taught in French to help students continue to improve their listening and reading skills.
Students are expected to communicate fully in French as well.  Their communication will still consist
mainly of familiar words, phrases and simple sentences.  Students will be able to express their thoughts
and opinions on a variety of topics. Assessments continue to focus on the communicative skills of
listening, speaking, reading, and writing.  This course prepares students for continued language
learning in the French III Advanced course.
French II Advanced - (1 credit)
Prerequisite: French I
French II Advanced continues to develop students’ ability to communicate using the French language.
The course is primarily taught in French to help students continue to improve their listening and reading
skills.  Students are expected to communicate fully in French as well.  Their communication will still
consist mainly of familiar words, phrases and simple sentences.  Students will be able to express their
thoughts and opinions on a variety of topics. Assessments continue to focus on the communicative
skills of listening, speaking, reading, and writing.  This course prepares students for continued language
learning in the French III Advanced course.
*Note- This course is being phased out and is only available to students with graduation dates of 2024
or earlier.  This course includes the same objectives and assessments as French II.
French III – (1 credit)
Prerequisite: French II
Students in French III will be able to express meaning in a variety of contexts and understand
information from connected statements. Students are generally understood by people accustomed to
dealing with language learners. Students will continue to acquire and discover the target language
through speaking, listening, reading, and writing activities. This course allows the students to
communicate in a target language environment at an intermediate level. The teacher and the students
will interact primarily in the target language.
French III Advanced – (1 credit)
Prerequisite: French II
French III Advanced prepares students to take French IV AP. This course focuses on delivery of
content through thematic units while expanding on relevant vocabulary and refining the accuracy of
expression by knowing the components of language. This course begins to incorporate the 6 AP
themes within the units of study and makes connections between the themes and real-world
applications. The focus of this course is developing intermediate-mid proficiency. This course is held in
the target language.
AP French IV– (1 credit)
Prerequisite: French III
French IV AP is designed to provide high school students with a learning experience equivalent to that
of an introductory college course. Students will learn language structures in context and use them to
convey meaning as well as explore French culture in both contemporary and historical contexts.
Students will be expected to demonstrate their knowledge of the target culture, incorporate
interdisciplinary topics, make cultural comparisons, and actively communicate in a variety of settings
and contexts. This course is held in the target language. Students are highly encouraged to take the
French Language and Culture Advanced Placement Exam for possible college credit at the conclusion
of this course.
Chinese I - (1 credit)
Prerequisite: none
Chinese I is offered in an online format during the school day. Students will build a basic foundation of
reading, listening, speaking, and writing in modern standard Mandarin Chinese. Students will be able to
communicate within a variety of everyday contexts. Students will have the opportunity to interact with
the Chinese culture through written dialogues and reading passages. The majority of this course is
conducted in the target language. This course will be held at each campus. The offering of this course
is subject to confirmed student enrollment
Chinese II - (1 credit)
Prerequisite: Chinese I
Chinese II is offered in an online format during the school day. Students will continue to build a basic
foundation of reading, listening, speaking, and writing in modern standard Mandarin Chinese with an
increased introduction of Chinese characters. Students will be able to communicate within a variety of
everyday contexts as well as interact with the Chinese culture through an increased demand for textual
literacy. The majority of this course is conducted in the target language. This course will be held at each
campus. The offering of this course is subject to confirmed student enrollment.
Chinese III Advanced - (1 credit)
Prerequisite: Chinese II
Chinese III Advanced is offered in an online format during the school day. Students will further build
upon the foundation of reading, listening, speaking, and writing in modern standard Mandarin Chinese.
Class time is dedicated to increased focus on literacy in Chinese characters through authentic texts and
exercises that promote proficiency in Chinese. The teacher and the students will interact in the target
language. This course will be held at each campus. The offering of this course is subject to confirmed
student enrollment.
AP Chinese IV - (1 credit)
Prerequisite: Chinese III
AP Chinese IV is offered in an online format during the school day. AP Chinese IV is designed to
provide high school students with a learning experience equivalent to that of an introductory college
course. Students will learn language structures in context and use them to convey meaning as well as
explore Chinese culture in both contemporary and historical contexts. Students will be expected to
demonstrate their knowledge of the target culture, incorporate interdisciplinary topics, make cultural
comparisons, and actively communicate in a variety of settings and contexts. This course is held in the
target language. Students are highly encouraged to take the Chinese Language and Culture Advanced
Placement Exam for possible college credit at the conclusion of this course. This course will be held at
each campus. The offering of this course is subject to confirmed student enrollment.
American Sign Language I - (1 credit)
Prerequisites: none
ASL I introduces students to the language and culture of the Deaf.  In this course, students will build
their receptive and expressive communicative foundation. The focus of this course is developing a
novice-mid proficiency. This course is conducted in ASL (without voice) a significant amount of time.
Due to a shortage of qualified teachers in this area, enrollment will be limited and this course may not
be available at every campus.
American Sign Language II - (1 credit)
Prerequisites: ASL I
ASL II continues to introduce the language and culture of the Deaf. In this course, students continue to
develop their expressive and receptive communicative abilities.  Students will gain a deeper
appreciation and understanding of American Deaf Culture.  The focus of this course is developing a
novice-high proficiency. This course is conducted in ASL (without voice) a significant amount of time.
Due to a shortage of qualified teachers in this area, enrollment will be limited and this course may not
be available at every campus.
Foundations of Personal Fitness - (1/2 credit)
Prerequisite: None
This course motivates students to strive for lifetime personal fitness with an emphasis on the health-
related components of physical education. The knowledge and skills taught in this course include
teaching students about the process of becoming fit as well as achieving some degree of fitness within
the class.
Aerobic Activity - (1/2 credit)
Prerequisite: None
Students in Aerobic Fitness are exposed to a variety of activities that promote health-related fitness. A
major expectation of this course is for the student to design a personal fitness program that uses
aerobic activities as a foundation.
Individual Sports/Team Sports - (1/2 credit)
Prerequisite: None
Students in Individual Sports are exposed to a wide range of individual sports that can be pursued for a
lifetime. The continued development of health-related fitness and the selection of individual sport
activities that are enjoyable are a major objective of this course. Students in Team Sports develop
health-related fitness and an appreciation for team work and fair play. A major objective of this course
is incorporating physical activity into a lifestyle beyond high school.
Partner’s PE - (1 credit)
Prerequisite: Application
Partner’s PE can substitute for one of the other PE classes. Students are paired with physically
challenged students in a physical education class and serve as helpers and mentors to their partner. An
application is required.
Adventure/Outdoor Education - (1 credit)
Prerequisite: none
Students enrolled in adventure/outdoor education are expected to develop competency in
Adventure/Outdoor Education activities that provide opportunities for enjoyment and challenge.
Emphasis is placed upon student selection of activities that also promote a respect for the environment
and that can be enjoyed for a lifetime. Adventure/Outdoor Education includes activities such as archery,
backpacking, camping, hiking, fishing, orienteering, hunter education, and boater safety. This course
includes field experiences aligned with these recreational pursuits. Knowledge of The National Parks
Association, Endangered Species Information, Boating Safety and Hunting Safety are a part of the
curriculum. This course will require student fees for the Hunter Education and Boater Certification
portions of the courses through TPWD.
Cheerleading - (1 credit)
Prerequisite: Audition Tryouts by Judges
To enroll in this class, the student must have been selected a member of the freshman, JV, or Varsity
team during spring try-outs; any student who makes the team is required to enroll in the course in order
to participate in cheerleading activities for the 2020-2021 school year. During the fall semester students
will work on flexibility, muscular strength and endurance, and technical skills training through precision
cheerleading in preparation for football games, pep rallies, and special performances. During the spring
semester, students will continue to focus on first semester objectives in addition to preparing for the UIL
Spirit Contest and spring try-outs. Some practice hours in addition to the school day may be required
for membership.   (Students will incur some expenses for summer camp, practice gear, supplies, etc.)
Students will earn state-required PE credit for this year long class.
Health Education - (1/2 credit)
Prerequisite: None
Health Education allows students to develop skills that will make them health literate adults to promote
individual, family, and community health. Students gain a deeper understanding of the knowledge and
behaviors they use to safeguard their health. Included in the health course is parenting and paternity
awareness (p.a.p.a.), which addresses the rights, responsibilities, and realities of parenting.
Student Athletic Trainer - (1 credit)
Prerequisite: Student Athletic Trainer Application
Student athletic training is a full year class that involves hands-on experience on the field and in the
athletic training room. This class is designed for students interested in fields such as athletic training,
physical therapy, or medicine. This class will involve practice and game coverage, first aid and
emergency care, and team travel. An application is required. In addition, all student athletic trainers
must complete one year of the sports medicine class.
LeadWorthy I - (1/2 credit)
Prerequisite: None
This is a one semester, Texas Education Agency approved, state elective for ninth through twelfth
graders. LeadWorthy provides a leadership development curriculum designed to provide young people
with essential life skills. It is a dynamic experience, which empowers teens to be the leaders of
tomorrow through highly interactive activities conducted by a specially trained teacher. The class
activities revolve around lessons in: goal setting, developing relationships, public speaking, positive
self-concept, principle-centered decision-making, creative problem-solving, listening and affirming skills,
actions of personal responsibility and conflict resolution skills.
LeadWorthy II - (1/2 credit)
Prerequisite: LeadWorthy I at the high school level and application
LeadWorthy II is a highly interactive course that provides continued leadership development. A major
focus will be on student-led service-based projects. Students will plan, organize and implement
activities that can be done during the regular class time. These projects will be conducted throughout
the semester at various organizations within the Frisco community. Through these service-based
activities, students will be able to practice and apply the leadership skills that they have learned. (Only
juniors and seniors may take LeadWorthy I and II during the same school year.)
Academic Decathlon - (1 credit)
Prerequisite: Application and instructor approval
This course provides students with in-class preparation for the Academic Decathlon competition.
Academic Decathlon is a nationwide competition that occurs in the spring semester. The course
provides for a systematic preparation of each student for participation in the ten decathlon events:
science, social studies, economics, mathematics, fine arts, language and literature, essay, interview,
speech, and Super Quiz. Nine members of the class will be chosen in December to be a part of the
competitive team. These nine will consist of three “A-average” students, three “B-average” students and
three “C-average” students. The other members will either compete at the Octathlon level (only for
freshmen and sophomores), or play a supportive role after that time.  The course will be weighted on
the 5.5 grade point scale. Students that take this course for three years will earn local credit for the third
year, which is excluded from GPA calculation. Students should be aware that the practice and
competition schedules are very demanding and include summer practices and after school
commitments.
AVID I (ADVANCEMENT VIA INDIVIDUAL DETERMINATION) - (1 credit)
Prerequisite: AVID in 8th grade or Application
This course prepares students in the academic middle for college eligibility and success. Students
receive instruction in writing, inquiry, collaboration and reading strategies in addition to note-taking and
organizational skills that are necessary for academic success. AVID students must enroll in at least one
Advanced, AP, or dual credit course in addition to the AVID elective class. Tutors are provided during
the AVID class to support student success in all courses. This course will satisfy the high school
speech credit requirement. This course will only be offered at Memorial HS and Frisco HS for the 2021-
2022 school year.
AVID II (ADVANCEMENT VIA INDIVIDUAL DETERMINATION) - (1 credit)
Prerequisite: AVID in 9th grade or Application
This course prepares students in the academic middle for college eligibility and success. Students
receive instruction in writing, inquiry, collaboration and reading strategies in addition to note-taking and
organizational skills that are necessary for academic success. AVID students must enroll in at least one
Advanced, AP, or dual credit course in addition to the AVID elective class. Tutors are provided during
the AVID class to support student success in all courses. This course will satisfy the high school
speech credit requirement if AVID I was not taken. This course will only be offered at Memorial HS and
Student Congress - (1 Credit)
10th – 12th grade
Prerequisite: Application for officers and student council members
This course provides an opportunity to study, practice, and develop group and individual leadership and
organizational skills. These skills include, but are not limited to: decision making, problem solving,
communication, leadership roles and civic responsibility. This course takes a hands-on lab oriented
approach to leadership training by involving students in participatory leadership through activities and
projects. Year one is a state credit and subsequent years are local credit.
Peer Assistance & Leadership (PALS/Student Ambassadors) – (1 credit)
11th – 12th grade
Required: Student Leadership Application & Interview
Peer Assistance and Leadership (PALS/Student Ambassadors) is designed for students to further
develop and apply peer mentoring skills, communication skills and problem-solving techniques. PAL
students will plan and facilitate leadership trainings, charity events, and community fundraisers.
Students are selected through an application and interview process the prior school year.
Sports Medicine - (1 credit)
10th - 12th grade
Prerequisite: Class Application
Sports Medicine is a full year course and is designed for students interested in fields such as athletic
training, physical therapy, or medicine. The course includes class work and practical hands-on
application in the following areas: prevention, treatment, and rehabilitation of sports injuries, taping and
wrapping of injuries, First Aid/CPR,  and emergency procedures. The course also offers practical
experiences with local sports medicine specialist.
Independent Study and Mentorship Program - (1 credit)
11th – 12th grade
Prerequisite: Application Process
Students focus their study on a topic or career of their choice. They develop a research portfolio that
has a collection of resources including interviews and observations with people who work in their
chosen topic or career field. Students work on original product design and development, research, time
management, communication, goal setting for project completion, and presentation skills in this
academically rigorous course. Students work with mentors at their place of business to gain “real world”
experience. They will work with their mentor to create a product related to their topic. Students give
progressively longer speech presentations and will give a formal presentation of their product and
mentorship in May.  For students interested in the health field:  updated immunizations, current TB
tests, a current flu vaccine, drug screen, background check, and HIPAA training are required.
(Additional requirements may be necessary for certain clinics/hospitals). See the counseling office for
more information.
Independent Study and Mentorship Program II - (1 credit)
12th grade
Prerequisite: ISM I and Application Process
Students continue their study on a topic or career of their choice. Students will either dig deeper into
their ISM I career of study or may choose to research a second career. They will continue to hone skills
in original product design and development, research, time management, communication, goal setting
for project completion, and presentation skills in this academically rigorous course. Students work with
mentors at their place of business to gain deeper understanding of their career path. They will work with
their mentor to create a product related to their topic. Students give progressively longer speech
presentations and will give a formal presentation of their product and mentorship in May. For students
interested in the health field:  updated immunizations, current TB tests, a current flu vaccine, drug
screen, background check, and HIPAA training are required. Students are required to cover these
costs. (Additional requirements may be necessary for certain clinics/hospitals). See the counseling
office for more information.
General Employability Skills (1 credit)
9th - 12th grade
Prerequisite:  ARD Committee Recommendation
General Employability Skills provides students with knowledge of the prerequisite skills for general
employment as well as the means of obtaining those skills.  The course includes the knowledge, skills,
and attitudes that allow employees to get along with their co-workers, make important work-related
decisions, and become strong members of the work team.  Discovering job possibilities that link skills,
abilities, interests, values, needs, and work environment preferences is a part of the process of
obtaining employability skills and abilities and is experiential learning that takes place over time.  This
course is designed to guide students in obtaining the knowledge and the needed employability skills
that are transferable among a variety of jobs and careers and are considered essential in any
employment situation.  Students will learn and apply basic knowledge of what is expected in the
workplace.
Methodology for Academic and Personal Success
9th - 10th grade
Prerequisite:  ARD Committee Recommendation
Methodology for Academic and Personal Success focuses on the skills and strategies necessary for
students to make a successful transition into high school and an academic career.  Students will
explore the options available in high school, higher education, and the professional world in order to
establish both immediate and long-range personal goals.  After identifying their individual learning
styles and abilities, students will build on these abilities by developing critical time-management,
organization, and study skills.  The course focuses on self-understanding, decision-making, resiliency,
attitude, character education, and leadership to help students maximize personal achievement.
Students will develop the specific strategies necessary to achieve their personal and professional
goals.
Making Connections I (0.5 credits)
9th - 12th grade
Prerequisite: ARD Committee Recommendation
Making Connections I assist students who have challenges with pragmatic language or social
skills.  The course assists students in developing and understanding their disability and how it relates to
their social skill deficits.  The course also assists students with developing and generalized appropriate
and beneficial social skills to increase students’ post-secondary outcomes.
Making Connections II (0.5 credits)
9th - 12th grade
Prerequisite: Making Connection I & ARD Committee Recommendation
Making Connections II assist students who have challenges with pragmatic language or social
skills.  The course assist students with understanding true friendships. Making Connections II assists
students to develop and maintain relationships.  Students will compare and contrast the qualities of
friendships, identify behaviors that make others appropriate friends to pursue, and roleplay and
participate in natural opportunities of initiating conversation and sharing information with a peer
regarding each other and the student’s individual experiences or interests.
Making Connections III (0.5 credits)
9th - 12th grade
Prerequisite: Making Connection II & ARD Committee Recommendation
Making Connections III assists students in understanding how their specific disability impacts their
learning style.  Students learn how to employ the proper accommodations and modifications to be more
successful.  Additionally, they develop the skill to effectively self-advocate for the accommodations and
modifications they require.
Making Connections IV (0.5 credits)
9th - 12th grade
Prerequisite: Making Connection III & ARD Committee Recommendation
Making Connections IV assists students with developing skills to effectively employ collaborative
problem solving.   Students will research how collaborative problem solving skills may impact an
individual's education and employment success.  Students will identify aspects of their own behavior
and belief system which may need to be modified to successfully engae in collaborative problem
solving and develop a plan to effectively employ collaborative problem solving strategies in various
circumstances.
Occupational Preparation I (locally developed credit)
9th – 12th grade
Prerequisite: ARD Committee Recommendation
Occupational Preparation I is a transition course designed to provide students with opportunities in
career exploration, vocational interest experiences, and integrated career development activities based
on post-secondary goals.  This course involves career preparatory curriculum, programs, and activities
that align with labor market trends and specific job requirements.  With the guidance of school and
community professionals, students will use a career planning process (i.e., assessments, evaluations,
career portfolios, etc.) based on career goals, interests, and abilities.
Occupational Preparation II (locally developed credit)
10th – 12th grade
Prerequisite:  Occupational Prep I / Committee Recommendation
Occupational Preparation II is a transition course designed to provide students opportunities to
organize and select career based experience based on their career interests, goals, and present skills.
Students will have multiple opportunities to develop traditional job preparation skills through job-
readiness curricula and training.  Within the Occupational II Preparation course, students will participate
in various on-the-job training experiences, including community service, specifically linked to school
credit and/or program content.  Students will demonstrate appropriate job-seeking and maintenance
skills.  Students must secure a minimum of ten hours per week of community based volunteer or paid
employment.
Vocational Adjustment Class I  (no credit assigned)
11th – 12th grade
Prerequisites:  Connected to CTE Course or Vocational Course/ ARD Committee
Recommendation, Minimum Age 16
Vocational Adjustment Class I is a transition educational experience that provides students with
meaningful school based and community based work experiences based on his/her individualized post-
secondary vocational goals. The Vocational Adjustment Class I program targets student’s future goal
planning and adult world transitions. Students participate in quality work experiences that are offered to
them prior to exiting school (i.e., apprenticeships, mentoring, paid and unpaid employment, service
learning, school-based enterprises, on-the job training, and internships). Student must maintain a
minimum of fifteen hours per week of paid or volunteer employment. Student must be enrolled in a CTE
vocationally focused course or career prep course while participating in VAC.
Vocational Adjustment Class II (no credit assigned)
12th grade
Prerequisites:  Connected to CTE Course or Vocational Course/ ARD Committee
Recommendation, Minimum Age 16
Vocational Adjustment Class II is an intensive vocational experience that provides preparatory activities
that lead to student’s acquisition of employability and technical skills, knowledge, and behaviors based
on his/her individualized post-secondary vocational goals. Students will practice self-management and
responsible decision-making that reflects appropriate work-based choices.  Students will demonstrate
independent advocacy, interpersonal, and vocational skills. Student is independent/interdependent at
job site, maintaining appropriate time-management skills, behaviors, and communication skills.
Students must secure a minimum of fifteen hours per week of competitive paid employment. Student
must be enrolled in a CTE vocationally focused course or career prep course while participating in
VAC.
Survey of Agriculture, Food, and Natural Resources - (1 credit)
9th –10th grade
Prerequisite: None
To prepare for success, students need to have opportunities to learn, reinforce, experience, apply, and
transfer their knowledge and skills in a variety of settings in which this course specifically targets the
four main sectors of agriculture; animal sciences, horticulture sciences, agriculture mechanics, and civic
leadership. This course allows students to develop knowledge and skills regarding career opportunities,
personal development, globalization, industry standards, and best practices used in a variety of
agricultural fields. Students will also have the option to join the FFA organization where they will
develop leadership and communication skills as well as the opportunity to participate in the animal
industry through livestock showing or career development events. Course will count toward fulfilling
prerequisite for Veterinary Medical Applications and Advanced Animal Science.
Wildlife, Fisheries, & Ecology Management - (1 credit)
9th –10th grade
Prerequisite: None
This course examines the management of game and nongame wildlife species, fish, aquatic crops and
their ecological principles as related to current agricultural practices. During the length of this course,
students will examine the importance of wildlife and outdoor recreation while highlighting the use of
scientific knowledge to study wildlife and natural resources. Also included in the course are sections
covering boater education, angler education, and hunter education. Students are provided the
opportunity to develop leadership skills through the FFA organization in events targeted to the interests
of wildlife students. This course provides instruction and training necessary for the Texas Hunter
Education and Boater Education Certifications. Fee for certification may be required.
Small Animal Management - (1/2 credit)
10th –12th grade
Prerequisite: None
This course is designed to develop knowledge and skills pertaining to the ownership, selection,
reproduction, nutritional requirements, health and management, and breed identification of a variety of
small animals common to the pet industry. This is a laboratory-oriented course that gives students
hands-on experience in working with a variety of small animals that may include, but are not limited to
dogs, cats, Guinea pigs, rabbits, other small mammals, as well as birds, reptiles and amphibians. It is
highly recommended that students interested the Veterinary Medical Applications program take Small
Animal Management. Students may also capitalize on the opportunity to join the FFA organization.
Course will count toward fulfilling a prerequisite for Veterinary Medical Applications and Advanced
Animal Science.
Livestock Production - (1 credit)
10th - 12th grade
Prerequisite: None
This course provides knowledge and skills related to animal systems, career opportunities, and industry
expectations in livestock production. It provides the student with the opportunity to learn technical skills
relating to the scientific and technological aspects of animal systems, anatomy and physiology,
nutrition, reproduction, genetics, pests and diseases, business management and operation skills.
Animal species to be addressed in this course may include, but are not limited to, beef cattle, dairy
cattle, sheep, goats, poultry and exotics. Students will have the opportunity to improve their leadership
skills through the FFA organization. Course will count toward fulfilling a prerequisite for Veterinary
Medical Application and Advanced Animal Science.
Equine Science - (1/2 credit)
10th - 12th grade
Prerequisite: None
This course is designed to introduce students to the many aspects of the horse industry. Students will
learn the basics of horse care, breed standards, equine nutrition, accepted management practices,
reproduction, equestrian events, and common training theories and techniques. Students will further
develop their knowledge of careers in the equestrian field. Students will have the opportunity to improve
their leadership skills through the FFA organization. Course will count toward fulfilling a prerequisite for
Veterinary Medical Applications and Advanced Animal Science.
Veterinary Medical Applications - (1 credit) (CTEC)
11th –12th grade
Prerequisite: 2 credits from any of the following courses-Survey of Agriculture, Food, and
Natural Resources, Equine Science, Livestock Production, or Small Animal Management
To be prepared for careers in the field of animal science, students need to attain academic skills and
knowledge, acquire technical knowledge and skills related to animal systems and the workplace, and
develop knowledge and skills regarding career opportunities, entry requirements, and industry
expectations. To prepare for success, students need opportunities to learn, reinforce, apply, and
transfer knowledge and skills and technologies in a variety of settings. Topics covered in this course
include, but are not limited to, veterinary practices as they relate to both large and small animal
species. Students may also capitalize on the opportunity to join the FFA organization with events
specifically tailored to students with an interest in Veterinary Medicine.
Animal Science (1 credit, CTEC)
12th grade
Prerequisites: 2 of 4 credits - Equine Science, Livestock Production, Small Animal Management,
or Wildlife, Fisheries & Ecology Management, Survey of Agriculture, Food and Natural
Resources
To be prepared for careers in the field of animal science, students need to attain academic skills and
knowledge, acquire knowledge and skills related to animal systems, and develop knowledge and skills
regarding career opportunities, entry requirements, and industry standards. To prepare for success,
students need opportunities to learn, reinforce, apply, and transfer their knowledge and skills in a
variety of settings. This course examines the interrelatedness of human, scientific, and technological
dimensions of livestock production. Instruction is designed to allow for the application of scientific and
technological aspects of animal science through field and laboratory experiences. This course may
qualify as a science credit.
Practicum in Veterinary Medical Applications - (2 credits) (CTEC)
12th grade
Prerequisite: Veterinary Medical Applications, Program Qualification Form Required
The practicum course is a double blocked, unpaid capstone experience for students participating in a
coherent sequence of career and technical education courses in the Veterinary Medical area of the
Agriculture, Food, and Natural Resources cluster. Required prerequisite is Veterinary Medical
Applications (Level 1). The practicum is designed to give students supervised practical application of
knowledge and skills in the Veterinarian Medical Field. Practicum experiences occur in a Veterinarian
Clinic under the supervision of a Licensed Veterinarian and their staff. To be prepared for careers in the
Veterinary field, students must acquire technical knowledge in the discipline as well as apply academic
skills in mathematics and science. After completion of this course, students will be able to take the
Texas Veterinary Medical Association level 1 Certified Veterinarian Assistant test and become certified.
Students must provide their own transportation to and from off-campus site.
Floral Design I - (1 credit)
10th - 12th grade
Prerequisite: None
This is an activity-based course structured to prepare students in the production of specialized floral
designs, identify and classify plants and flowers, and use artistic elements of design to create personal
floral arrangements. Students will develop knowledge and skills that enable them to understand the
business practices used in the floral design industry as well as providing the opportunity for students to
expand their leadership skills in the FFA organization. A materials fee is required for this course and
successful completion of both semesters of this course may fulfill the fine arts credit required for
graduation. This course provides the necessary training and instruction for students to participate in
testing for the Texas State Florist’s Certification. Materials fee may be required for this course. This
course may count as a Fine Arts credit.
Horticultural Science - (1 credit) (CTEC)
10th - 12th grade
Prerequisite: None
To be prepared for careers in horticultural systems, students need to attain academic skills and
knowledge, acquire technical knowledge and skills related to horticulture and the workplace, and
develop knowledge and skills regarding career opportunities, entry requirements, and industry
expectations. To prepare for success, students need opportunities to learn, reinforce, apply, and
transfer knowledge and skills in a variety of settings. This course is designed to develop an
understanding of common horticultural management practices as they relate to food and ornamental
plant production. Materials fee may be required for this course.
Landscape Design & Management - (1/2 credit) (CTEC)
10th - 12th grade
Prerequisite: None
To be prepared for careers in horticultural systems, students need to attain academic skills and
knowledge, acquire technical knowledge and skills related to horticultural systems and the workplace,
and develop knowledge and skills regarding career opportunities, entry requirements, and industry
expectations. To prepare for success, students need opportunities to learn, reinforce, apply, and
transfer their knowledge and skills and technologies in a variety of settings. This course
Is designed to develop an understanding of landscape and turfgrass management techniques and
practices.
Floral Design II - (1 credit) (CTEC)
11th - 12th grade
Prerequisite: Floral Design I
The practicum course is a paid or unpaid capstone experience for students participating in a coherent
sequence of career and technical education courses in the Agriculture, Food, and Natural Resources
cluster. The practicum is designed to give students supervised practical application of knowledge and
skills. Practicum experiences can occur in a variety of locations appropriate to the nature and level of
experiences such as employment, independent study, internships, assistantships, mentorships, or
laboratories. To be prepared for careers in agriculture, food, and natural resources, students must
acquire technical knowledge in the discipline as well as apply academic skills in mathematics. Students
should apply knowledge and skills related to mathematics, including algebra, geometry, and data
analysis in the context of agriculture, food, and natural resources. To prepare for success, students are
afforded opportunities to reinforce, apply, and transfer their knowledge and skills related to
mathematics in a variety of contexts. Materials fee may be required for this course.
Greenhouse Operation & Production - (1 credit) (CTEC)
11th - 12th grade
Prerequisite: Horticultural Science or Landscape Design & Management
This class exposes students to practical application of growing plants in a controlled space for profit.
We will learn industry standards and expectations of nursery and greenhouse growers. This course will
prepare students to be successful in the horticulture, landscape, and nursery career fields, plant
identification, growth, harvest and care, as well as greenhouse maintenance and manipulation will be
the main focus of our curriculum.
Plant and Soil Science - (1 credit) (CTEC)
11th - 12th grade
Prerequisite: Horticultural Science or Landscape Design & Management
This course provides a way of learning about the natural world. Students should know how plant and
soil science has influenced a vast body of knowledge, that there are still applications to be discovered,
and that plant and soil science is the basis for many other fields of science. Investigations, laboratory
practices, and field exercises will be used to develop an understanding of current plant and soil
science. This course is designed to prepare students for careers in the food and fiber industry. Students
will learn, reinforce, apply, and transfer their knowledge in a scientific setting. Materials fee may be
required for this course. This course may qualify as a science credit.
Agricultural Mechanics & Metal Technologies - (1 credit)
9th - 12th grade
Prerequisite: None
To be prepared for careers in agricultural power, structural, and technical systems, students need to
attain academic skills and knowledge; acquire technical knowledge and skills related to power,
structural, and technical agricultural systems and the industry; and develop knowledge and skills
regarding career opportunities, entry requirements, industry certifications, and industry expectations. To
prepare for success, students need opportunities to learn, reinforce, apply, and transfer knowledge and
skills and technologies in a variety of settings. This course is designed to develop an understanding of
agricultural mechanics as it relates to safety and skills in tool operation, electrical wiring, plumbing,
carpentry, fencing, concrete, and metalworking techniques.  This class does not involve automotive.
Materials fee may be required for this course.
Agricultural Structures Design & Fabrication - (1 credit)
10th - 12th grade
Prerequisite: Agricultural Mechanics & Metal Technologies
To be prepared for careers in mechanized agriculture and technical systems, students attain knowledge
and skills related to agricultural facilities design and fabrication.  Students explore career opportunities,
entry requirements, and industry expectations. To prepare for success, students reinforce, apply, and
transfer their academic knowledge and technical skills in a variety of settings. Materials fee may be
required for this course.
Agricultural Equipment Design & Fabrication - (1 credit) (CTEC)
11th - 12th grade
Prerequisite: Agricultural Structures Design and Fabrication
This Career and Technical course will give the student hands on opportunities to repair and maintain
internal combustion engines, electrical, and hydraulic systems. Scientific, mathematical, economic, and
technical principles are reinforced in this course, as are communication and critical thinking skills.
Supervised agricultural experience SAE programs and FFA leadership activities are integral
components of the course and provide many opportunities for practical application of instructional
competencies.  Materials fee may be required for this course.
Introduction to Welding - (1 credit) (CTEC)
11th - 12th grade
Prerequisite: Agricultural Structures Design and Fabrication
This Career and Technical course is for students interested in welding as a career. Training for
employment with entry-level skills in welding trades will be emphasized.  Oxy-fuel welding and cutting,
plasma arc cutting, shielded metal arc welding, gas metal arc welding, flux cored arc welding, and gas
tungsten arc welding will be covered. Hand and power tools, welding on various types of metals,
reading blueprint welding symbols, metal characteristics, and equipment setup are other areas that
students master. Safety, leadership, entrepreneurship, and career opportunities are included. Materials
fee may be required for this course.
Practicum in Agricultural Structures & Equipment – (2 credits)  (CTEC)
12th grade
Prerequisite: Agricultural Equipment Design & Fabrication or Introduction to Welding
The practicum course is a paid or unpaid capstone experience for students participating in a coherent
sequence of career and technical education courses in the Agriculture, Food, and Natural Resources
cluster. The practicum is designed to give students supervised practical application of knowledge and
skills. Practicum experiences can occur in a variety of locations appropriate to the nature and level of
experiences such as employment, independent study, internships, assistantships, mentorships, or
laboratories. To be prepared for careers in agriculture, food, and natural resources, students must
acquire technical knowledge in the discipline as well as apply academic skills in mathematics. Students
should apply knowledge and skills related to mathematics, including algebra, geometry, and data
analysis in the context of agriculture, food, and natural resources. To prepare for success, students are
afforded opportunities to reinforce, apply, and transfer their knowledge and skills related to
mathematics in a variety of contexts. Materials fee may be required for this course.
Architecture and Construction I - (1 credit) (CTEC)
9th –12th grade
Prerequisite: None
Architecture and Construction I provides an overview to the various career opportunities in the Building
Industry.  Students will gain foundational knowledge and skills to move on to Architecture and
Construction II.  Both digital and traditional forms of technical and non-technical drawing are taught in
conjunction with basic design principles.  Students will also learn about construction materials and
methods and how to apply this knowledge in drafting.  Architecture and Construction I introduces the
students to basic principles of geometry and physics as applied to building construction.  Students will
be expected to utilize both creative “left-brained” thinking and analytical “right-brained” thinking for
creative problem solving projects in this course. This course can be used to satisfy the technology
applications credit.
Architecture and Construction II - (1 credit) (CTEC)
10th –12th grade
Prerequisite: Architecture and Construction I
In Architecture and Construction II, students gain knowledge and skills that will help them on their way
to a post-secondary education or career in Architecture and Construction. Students will learn how to
develop preliminary concepts into finalized designs through traditional and digital mediums.
Architectural design introduces students to state and local building codes, foundational design criteria,
and construction techniques for the purpose of both residential and small commercial design while also
introducing more theoretical elements such as Architectural history and basic design theory. Supplies
fees required. This course can be used to satisfy the technology applications credit.
Architectural Design I - (1 credit) (CTEC)
11th –12th grade
Prerequisite: Architecture and Construction II
In Architectural Design I, students are exposed to more complex building systems, construction
techniques, and technologies. Students undergo daily peer reviews and are critiqued by building
industry professionals at the end of each project promoting a collegiate level environment. The course
also introduces advanced three dimensional modeling and construction detailing where more
responsibility is placed on the student to undergo independent research. Higher level design theory is
introduced as a vehicle for all student work. Supplies fees required. This course can be used to satisfy
the technology applications credit.
Architectural Design II - (2 credits) (CTEC)
12th grade
Prerequisite: Architectural Design I, Program Qualification Form required
Architectural Design II is the culmination of the students’ prior three years of Architectural learning.
Students are given the freedom to conceptualize, research, and design projects of their choosing while
also creating weekly goals and deadlines for themselves. Aside from their final projects, students are
introduced to the professional environment through internships at Architecture firms, guest speakers,
interview techniques, college applications, ethics discussions, and portfolio design. Students are
expected to provide transportation for themselves to and from internship sites. Supplies fees required.
Interior Design I - (1 credit)
10th –12th grade
Prerequisite: None
Interior Design I is a technical course that addresses psychological, physiological and sociological
needs of individuals by enhancing the environments in which they live and work. Individuals use
knowledge and skills related to interior and exterior environments, basic architecture, construction, and
furnishings to make wise consumer decisions, increase productivity, and compete in industry. Materials
fee may be required for this course.
Professional Communications (Speech) – (1/2 credit)
9th – 12th grade
Prerequisite: None
Professional Communications (Speech) is designed to build and enhance student communication skills
in both a social and professional context. These skills include nonverbal communication, listening,
group communication, public speaking, and product development. Students in Professional
Communications class will also learn the skills needed to be successful in the business world, such as
resume writing, job interviewing protocol, and professional etiquette.  Students will also develop an
understanding of business structure and the process of product creation and design. This course
provides practical application and hands-on experience, which aim to help students develop the
necessary communication skills to be productive, successful, and positive contributors to our global
society. This course fulfills the speech requirement for graduation.
3D Modeling and Animation - (1 credit)
9th –12th grade
Prerequisite: None
In this first level course, students will explore the basic principles, concepts and methodologies of 3D
animation. Students will create an original character for use with various projects including, but not
limited to, drawings, a clay model, digital art, and many more. This character concept will be
incorporated into their projects using the various software applications such as Adobe Photoshop and
Autodesk Maya a 3D industry standard advanced software. Students will be expected to draw and will
learn new drawing techniques. This course is project based, students must be self-motivated complete
projects. Materials fee may be required for this course. This course may qualify as a fine arts credit.
This course can be used to satisfy the technology applications credit.
Web Technologies - (1 credit)
10th –12th grade
Prerequisite: Digital Media or 3D Modeling & Animation
Through the study of web technologies and design, students learn to make informed decisions
regarding emerging technology and apply those decisions to the field of information technology.
Students will be introduced to common Web Standards set forth by the World Wide Web Consortium.
Topics include Hypertext Markup Language and Cascading Style Sheets. This course emphasizes the
important role standards play in Website development. A working knowledge of the Adobe Photoshop
is required for this course per the prerequisite. This course is project based, students must be self-
motivated and willing to put in the time and effort necessary to complete projects. This course can be
used to satisfy the technology applications credit.
Animation I - (2 credits) (CTEC)
10th –12th grade
Prerequisite: 3D Modeling and Animation, Art Recommended
Animation is a continuation of the material learned in the 3D Modeling and Animation coursework and
focuses on Maya, a 3D industry standard advanced software. Students taking this course should have
a desire to learn storyboarding, 3D modeling, camera layout, and animation. Within this context, in
addition to developing technical knowledge and skills needed for success in the Arts, Audio/Video
Technology, and Communications career cluster, students will be expected to develop an
understanding of the history and techniques of the animation industry.  Materials fee may be required
for this course.
Animation II - (2 credits) (CTEC)
11th –12th grade
Prerequisite: Animation I
Students will utilize skills learned in the prerequisite Animation course to further their knowledge in
three dimensional animation techniques. The focus will be on creating several animation shorts over
the course of a year. Students will enhance their skills in storyboarding, animating, sketching, digital
painting, modeling and rigging to add to their portfolio. Software will include Adobe Flash, Adobe
Photoshop, Final Cut Pro, and Autodesk Maya.  Materials fee may be required for this course.
Practicum in Animation - (2 credits) (CTEC)
12th grade
Prerequisite: Animation II
Students will utilize skills learned in the prerequisite Animation 2 course to further their knowledge in
two and three dimensional animation techniques. This advanced level course focuses heavily on
sketching and will delve deeper into pre-visualization artwork needed for creating characters,
backgrounds, layouts and storyboards as well as creating animated shorts. In addition, students will
begin working on video game animations in Maya. Software will include Adobe Flash, Adobe
Photoshop, and Final Cut Pro. Materials fee may be required for this course.
Audio/Video Production l - (1 Credit)
9th-12th Grade
Prerequisite: None
Students in Audio/Video Productions I will learn the principles of storytelling through audio and visual
production technology. Students will explore industry-level concepts and skills to develop audio and
visual products that are utilized across multiple media and film platforms. Professional grade equipment
and software will be used to develop skills in composition and camera techniques, sequencing,
continuity and editing. Students will create various media products with an emphasis on broadcast
writing to contribute to student-led productions. Audio/Video Production I members are involved in
every aspect of generating content and producing a studio-news broadcast. Course projects and
assignments will require additional time outside of the instructional period. As a member of the
program, students have an opportunity to compete in multiple competitions. A course materials fee of
$50 is required. This course can be used to satisfy the technology applications credit.
Audio/Video Production II - (1 credit)
10th- 12th Grade
Prerequisite: Audio/Video Production I
As the second-level course of a four-tiered program, students will create and develop industry-level
audio and video products to contribute to various broadcast productions. These products range from
news packages, public service announcements, advertisements, entertainment segments and more.
Students are expected to operate studio cameras, audio soundboards, lighting equipment and
teleprompter systems. As a member of the Audio/Video Production program, students will also be
expected to demonstrate directing and producing skills and serve as voice and on-camera talent.
Students will create and build a professional portfolio to demonstrate mastery of skills and experience.
In addition to content production, students will develop community partnerships to create advertising
and marketing strategies that promote student-led productions. Course projects and assignments will
require additional time outside of the instructional period. As a member of the program, students have
an opportunity to compete in multiple competitions.Teacher recommendation is required for this course
and a $50 course fee.
Practicum in News Production I –(2 Credits-single blocked class with outside of
school requirements)
11th-12th Grade
Prerequisite: Audio/Video Production II
As the third-level in a four-tiered program, this course has a required lab component that serves as a
second credit. Students enrolled in Practicum in Audio-Video Production, will create and develop
industry-standard audio and video products to contribute to various campus, district and community
publications. Students will focus on in-depth, impact pieces tailored to their campus, community and
district. As an advanced member of the program, students are expected to operate studio cameras,
audio soundboards, lighting equipment and teleprompter systems. Students will also be expected to
demonstrate directing, producing skills, serve as on-camera talent and in a leadership capacity.
Practicum members will engage in mentorship and recruitment within the campus and feeder schools.
Students will also have an opportunity to enhance their portfolios and connect with industry
professionals. Course projects and assignments will require additional time outside of the instructional
period. Time spent outside of class will contribute to the mandatory lab component required for this
course . As a member of the program, students have an opportunity to compete in multiple
competitions. Teacher recommendation is required for this course and a $50 course fee.
Practicum in News Production II – (2 Credits-single blocked class with outside of school
requirements)
12th Grade
Prerequisite: Practicum in News Production I
As the fourth-level in the program, this course has a required lab component that serves as a second
credit. Students will create and develop audio and visual productions in a concentrated area.Students
will demonstrate advanced storytelling and production mastery. Practicum members will engage in
mentorship and recruitment within the campus and feeder schools. Students will serve as campus
ambassadors at a district level and collaborate with community leaders. They will also have an
opportunity to enhance their portfolios and connect with industry professionals. As an advanced
member of the program, students are expected to operate studio cameras, audio soundboards, lighting
equipment and teleprompter systems. Practicum members will also be expected to demonstrate
directing, producing skills, serve as on-camera talent and in a leadership capacity. Course projects and
assignments will require additional time outside of the instructional period. Time spent outside of class
will contribute to the mandatory lab component required for this course . As a member of the program,
students have an opportunity to compete in multiple competitions. Teacher recommendation is required
for this course and a $50 course fee.
Practicum in Sports Broadcasting I - (2 Credits) (CTEC)
11th-12th Grade
Prerequisite: Audio/Video Production II
Students enrolled in this course will demonstrate their knowledge gained from Sports Broadcasting and
use it in a practical sports aspect in which they will produce, shoot, and report LIVE games from The
Ford Center, Memorial Stadium, Toyota Stadium, and High School campuses according to the sport in
season (i.e. Softball, Baseball, Basketball, Volleyball, etc.). All games and events will be streamed live
on FriscoISDsports.com and the NFHS Network allowing a real-world experience in live broadcasting.
Students will also produce packaged stories to show on the Frisco Sports Network. Students will serve
as staff members for football venue video boards including but not limited to: cameras, replay systems,
and live graphics. This course provides hands-on learning opportunities for students and serves as a
primer for progression into Practicum in Sports Broadcasting II and eventually the live broadcasting
industry..
Practicum in Sports Broadcasting II - (2 Credits) (CTEC)
12th Grade
Prerequisite: Practicum in Sports Broadcasting I
Students will serve as directors and producers on the Frisco Sports Network for all live broadcasts
events. Students enrolled in this course will demonstrate their knowledge gained from Practicum Sports
Broadcast I and use it in a practical sports aspect in which they will direct, produce, and report LIVE
games from The Ford Center, Memorial Stadium, Toyota Stadium, and High School campuses
according to the sport in season (i.e. Softball, Baseball, Basketball, Volleyball, etc.). Students will serve
as staff members for the Frisco Sports Network in roles including but not limited to: Play-by-Play, Color
Commentary, Sideline Reporting, and Technical Directing. Students will also produce packaged stories
to show on the Frisco Sports Network. This course provides hands-on learning opportunities for
students and serves as a foundation for entry into the live broadcasting industry.
Digital Media - (1 credit)
9th –12th grade
Prerequisite: None
Digital Media is a course designed to educate students on the emerging digital world as well as provide
hands on experience with industry standard software.  The knowledge and skills acquired will enable
students to successfully design digital graphics, create basic 2D animations, introductory video and
audio projects plus integrate it all together into a digital web portfolio.  There is a concentration in
printed graphic design as this course serves as prerequisite for Graphic Design and Illustration I.
Students are expected to employ planning and time management skills to complete projects.  This
course can be used to satisfy the technology applications credit.
Web Technologies - (1 credit)
10th –12th grade
Prerequisite: Digital Media, or 3D Modeling & Animation
Through the study of web technologies and design, students learn to make informed decisions
regarding emerging technology and apply those decisions to the field of information technology.
Students will be introduced to common Web Standards set forth by the World Wide Web Consortium.
Topics include Hypertext Markup Language and Cascading Style Sheets. This course emphasizes the
important role standards play in Website development. A working knowledge of the Adobe Photoshop
is required for this course per the prerequisite. This course is project based, students must be self-
motivated and willing to put in the time and effort necessary to complete projects. This course can be
used to satisfy the technology applications credit.
Graphic Design and Illustration I - (2 credits) (CTEC)
10th –12th grade
Prerequisite: Digital Media
In this course students will explore the creation of 2D computer graphics with an emphasis on the visual
communication process, basic terminology and principles and elements of design. Industry standard
software is utilized for creation of raster and vector based graphics. Through project-based learning,
students will develop the knowledge and skills to produce projects such as posters, brochures, flyers
and other various graphic design materials. The student is required to apply technical skills for
efficiency and is expected to employ planning and time-management skills to complete work task. A
basic working knowledge of Adobe Photoshop is required for this course per the prerequisite. Adobe
Illustrator is introduced in this course. Materials fee may be required for this course.
Graphic Design and Illustration II – (2 credits) (CTEC)
11th –12th grade
Prerequisite: Graphic Design and Illustration I
The course expands on Graphic Design and Illustration including advanced skills in image editing and
vector graphic software focusing on original creation and design of computer graphics for use as
ornamentation, illustration, and advertising. Students are expected to interpret, evaluate and justify
design decisions. Instruction is project-based and students will develop advanced technical skills
needed for success in visual communication industries. Student designs must show original and
inventive ideas while utilizing industry and market trends. Software focus continues in Adobe
Photoshop with more focus using Adobe Illustrator. Adobe InDesign is introduced in the course.
Materials fee may be required for this course.
Practicum in Graphic Design and Illustration - (2 credits) (CTEC)
12th grade
Prerequisite: Graphic Design and Illustration II , Passing Score on the Adobe Certified Associate
Exam in Visual Communications, Program Qualification Form & Portfolio Review Required
This is the final course in the Graphic Design and Illustration pathway. Students will be expected to
demonstrate & deliver a technical understanding of the graphic design industry with a focus on skill
proficiency. Instruction may be delivered through lab-based classroom experiences or career
preparation opportunities (field site). Additional focus will be placed on professional communication
strategies and ethical decision making in regard to graphic design careers. Software focus is the Adobe
Creative Design Suite – Photoshop, Illustrator and InDesign. Materials fee may be required for this
course. Students must provide their own transportation to and from the off-campus field site. Fingerprint
and/or background check may be required based on field site.
Fashion Design I - (1 credit)
10th –12th grade
Prerequisite: None
This course will address careers in fashion that span all aspects of the textile and apparel industries.
Within this context, in addition to developing technical knowledge and skills needed for success, the
course prepares individuals to understand the psychological aspects of clothing and textiles, and
introduces the student to: basic clothing construction techniques, clothing care and maintenance,
design principles, textile information, and clothing consumerism. Additionally, the students will be
expected to develop an understanding of fashion and the textile and apparel industries. Supplies and/or
materials fee may be required for this course.
Fashion Design II - (1 credit)
11th –12th grade
Prerequisite: Fashion Design I
Careers in fashion span all aspects of the textile and apparel industries. Within this context, in addition
to developing advanced knowledge and skills needed for success in the Arts, Audio/Video Technology,
and Communications career cluster, students will be expected to develop an advanced understanding
of fashion, with emphasis on design and production. Supplies and/or materials fee required for this
course.
Survey of Business, Marketing and Finance - (1 credit)
9th –12th grade
Prerequisite: None
In Survey of Business, Marketing, and Finance, students gain knowledge and skills in economies and
private enterprise systems, the impact of global business, marketing of goods and services, advertising,
and product pricing. Students analyze the sales process and financial management principles. This
course allows students to reinforce, apply, and transfer academic knowledge and skills to a variety of
interesting and relevant activities, problems and settings in business, marketing, and finance.
Touch System Data Entry - (1/2 credit)
9th –12th grade
Prerequisite: None
Students apply technical skills to address business applications of emerging technologies. Students
enhance reading, writing, computing, communication, and reasoning skills and apply them to the
business environment. Students will need to apply touch system data entry for production of business
documents.
Business Information Management I - (1 credit)
9th –12th grade
Prerequisite: None
Students implement personal and interpersonal skills to strengthen individual performance in the
workplace and in society. Students apply technical skills to, improve keyboarding proficiency, create
word-processing documents, develop spreadsheets, formulate databases, as well as create and
animate electronic presentations using Microsoft Office software. These skills will assist students in
making a successful transition to the postsecondary education and the workforce. This course can be
used to satisfy the technology applications credit.
Business Information Management II - (1 credit) (CTEC)
10th –12th grade
Prerequisite: Business Information Management I
Students apply advanced technical skills to create advanced word-processing documents, develop
advanced spreadsheets, formulate advanced databases for use within corporate or small business
inventory purposes, as well as create and animate advanced electronic presentations using Microsoft
Office and Google software.  Students will have the option to become certified as a Microsoft Office
Specialist (exam fee will apply).
Business Law - (1 credit)
10th –12th grade
Prerequisite: None
Students analyze the social responsibility of business and industry regarding issues relating to the legal
environment, business ethics, torts, contracts, negotiable financial instruments, personal property,
sales, warranties, business organizations, concept of agency and employment, and real property.
Students apply technical skills to address the legal, managerial, marketing, financial, ethical, and
international dimensions of business to make appropriate business decisions.
Global Business - (1/2 credit)
11th –12th grade
Prerequisite: None
Students apply technical skills to address global business in applications of emerging technologies.
Students develop a foundation in the economic, financial, technological, international, social, and
ethical aspects of business to become competent consumers, employees, and entrepreneurs. Students
enhance reading, writing, computing, communication, and reasoning skills and apply them to the
business environment.
Survey of Education and Training - (1 credit)
9th –12th grade (Recommended 10th grade)
Prerequisite: None
Do you want to make a difference?  What does it take to be an effective and dynamic educator in an
ever-changing society?  This course will explore opportunities in the educational clusters and provide
students with experiences to develop the skills needed to be successful within the teaching profession.
These experiences would include, but are not limited to, creating and presenting engaging lesson
plans, learning strategies for best practices, classroom management, and developing tools for a
teacher to meet the name and need of every student.
Child Development - (1 credit)
10th –12th grade
Prerequisite: None
This technical laboratory course addresses parenting as well as the growth and development of
children. Students will explore knowledge and skills related to parenting, relationships, family dynamics,
child growth and development from prenatal through school-age children, equipping students with child
development skills. Students use these skills to promote the well-being and healthy development of
children and investigate careers related to the care and education of children. Students are encouraged
to participate in extended learning experiences such as career and technical student organizations and
other leadership or extracurricular organizations.
Child Guidance – (2 credits) (CTEC)
11th –12th grade
Prerequisite: Child Development, Program Qualification Form Required
This laboratory course addresses the knowledge and skills related to early childhood growth and
guidance equipping students to develop positive relationships with children and effective caregiver
skills. Students use these skills to promote the well-being and healthy development of children,
strengthen a culturally diverse society, and pursue careers related to the care, guidance, and education
of children, including those with special needs. Students are encouraged to participate in extended
learning experiences such as career and technical student organizations and other leadership or
extracurricular organizations. Material fees required. A TB test and background check is required.
Students must provide their own transportation to and from the off-campus field sites.
Education and Training - (2 credits) (CTEC)
11th –12th grade
Prerequisite: Survey of Education & Training, Program Qualification Form Required
Recommended: Child Development
Instructional Practices in Education and Training is a field-based internship that provides students with
background knowledge of school-aged child and adolescent development as well as principles of
effective teaching and training practices. Students work under the joint direction and supervision of both
a teacher with knowledge of early childhood education and exemplary educators or trainers in direct
instructional roles with elementary and middle school-aged students. Students learn to plan and direct
individualized instruction and group activities, prepare instructional materials, develop materials for
educational environments, assist with record keeping, and complete other responsibilities of teachers,
trainers, paraprofessionals, or other educational personnel. Class fees required. Background check
required. Students must provide their own transportation to and from the off-campus field sites.
Interpersonal Studies - (1/2 credit)
9th –12th grade
Prerequisite: None
This course examines how the relationships between individuals and family members can influence
personality and quality of life. Students use knowledge and skills in family studies and human
development to enhance and explore personal development, foster quality relationships, promote
wellness of family members, manage multiple adult roles, and pursue careers related to counseling and
mental health services. Students are encouraged to participate in extended learning experiences such
as career and technical student organizations and other leadership or extracurricular organizations.
Practicum in Child Guidance – (2 credits) (CTEC)
12th grade
Prerequisite: Child Guidance, Program Qualification Form Required
This practicum provides occupationally specific training and focuses on early childhood development
and services. Content is designed to meet the occupational preparation needs and interests of students
and based upon the knowledge and skills selected from two or more courses in a coherent sequence in
the education & training cluster as well as the essential knowledge and skills for communication, critical
thinking, problem solving, information technology, ethical and legal responsibilities, leadership,
teamwork, and entrepreneurship. Instruction is delivered through school-based laboratory training and
is a non-paid, hands-on, work-based learning course. Students are encouraged to participate in
extended learning experiences such as career and technical student organizations and other leadership
or extracurricular organizations. Materials fees required. A TB test and background check is required.
Students must provide their own transportation to and from the off-campus field sites.
Practicum in Education and Training - (2 credits) (CTEC)
12th grade
Prerequisite: Education and Training, Program Qualification Form Required
Practicum in Education and Training is a field-based internship that provides students background
knowledge of the school-aged child and adolescent development principles as well as principles of
effective teaching and training practices. Students in the course work under the joint direction and
supervision of both a teacher with knowledge of early childhood education and exemplary educators in
direct instructional roles with elementary and middle school-aged students. Students learn to plan and
direct individualized instruction and group activities, prepare instructional materials, assist with record
keeping, make physical arrangements, and complete other responsibilities of classroom teachers,
trainers, paraprofessionals, or other educational personnel. Class fees required. Background check
required. Students must provide their own transportation to and from the off-campus field sites.
Banking and Financial Services - (1/2 credit)
10th –12th grade
Prerequisite: None
Students develop knowledge and skills in the economic, financial, technological, international, social,
and ethical aspects of banking to become competent consumers, employees, and entrepreneurs.
Students incorporate a broad base of knowledge that includes the operations, sales, and management
of banking institutions to gain a complete understanding of how banks function within society.
Dollars and Sense - (1/2 credit)
10th –12th grade
Prerequisite: None
Dollars and Sense focuses on consumer practices and responsibilities, the money management
process, decision-making skills, impact of technology, and preparation for human services careers.
Students are encouraged to participate in career and technical student organizations and other
leadership organizations.
Accounting I - (1 credit)
10th –12th grade
Prerequisite: None
Students investigate the field of accounting, including how it is impacted by industry standards as well
as economic, financial, technological, international, social, legal, and ethical factors. Students reflect on
this knowledge as they engage in the process of recording, classifying, summarizing, analyzing, and
communicating accounting information. Students formulate and interpret financial information for use in
management decision making. Materials fee may be required for this course.
Accounting II – (1 credit) (CTEC)
11th –12th grade
Prerequisite: Accounting I
This course uses an integrated approach to teach accounting.  Students first learn how businesses plan
for and evaluate their operating, financing and investing decisions and then how accounting systems
gather and provide data to internal and external decisions makers. This year-long course covers all the
learning objectives of a traditional college level financial accounting course, plus those from a
managerial accounting course. Topics include an introduction to accounting, accounting information
systems, time value of money, and accounting for merchandising firms, sales and receivables, fixed
assets, debt and equity. Other topics include statement of cash flows, financial ratios, cost-volume profit
analysis and variance analysis. Materials fee may be required for this course.
Money Matters - (1 credit)
11th –12th grade
Prerequisite: Banking and Financial Services, Dollars and Sense, or Accounting I
Students will investigate money management from a personal financial perspective. Students apply
critical-thinking skills to analyze financial options based on current and projected economic factors.
Students will examine various methods of achieving short-term and long-term financial goals through
several means such as investing, tax planning, asset allocation, risk management, retirement planning,
and estate planning. Students will gain insight of professional employability skills that are required by
business and industry. By examining financial forecast students will demonstrate foundational
knowledge that will require decision-making in their personal finances. Materials fee may be required
for this course.
Securities and Investments – (1 credit) (CTEC)
12th grade
Prerequisite or Corequisite: Accounting II or Money Matters
Students will understand the laws and regulations to manage business operations and transactions in
the securities and investments industries. Students will discuss strategies for selecting investments and
understand factors that must be considered when investing. Students will explore exams and
certifications required to sell securities and other financial products as well as demonstrate an
understanding of proper business etiquette. Materials fee may be required for this course.
Survey of Government and Public Administration - (1 credit) (CTEC)
9th –12th grade
Prerequisite: None
This course provides the knowledge base for students who are interested in taking advanced
government and legal studies courses at the CTE Center. Topics include: political philosophy, the
structure of the U.S. Constitution, the state and federal judicial system (with an emphasis on the
Supreme Court), constitutional case law, civil rights, criminal law, torts, consumer law, family law, public
policy, political activism, and the role of media in law and politics.
Court Systems and Practices – (1 credit) (CTEC)
10th –12th grade
Prerequisite: Survey of Government and Public Administration
Court Systems and Practices is an overview of the federal and state court systems. The course
identifies the roles of judicial officers and the trial processes from pretrial to sentencing and examines
the types and rules of evidence. Emphasis is placed on constitutional laws for criminal procedures such
as search and seizure, stop and frisk, and interrogation.
Political Science – (1 credit) (CTEC)
10th –12th grade
Prerequisite: Survey of Government and Public Administration
This course will familiarize the student with political and legal theory through the study of international
governmental systems, as well as the United States court system; governmental systems; public
policies; and political processes, systems, and behaviors.
Competitive Trial Advocacy - (1 credit) (CTEC)
10th - 12th grade
Prerequisite:  WBL Qualification Form and Try-out Required for various competition
Through the understanding of jurisprudence, students will gain knowledge of practicing both civil and
criminal law.  Areas of study include but are not limited to Procedural law, Tort law, Contract law,
Property law, Crimes against persons, and Crimes against property. Students will have the opportunity
to experience both trial and appellate procedures. Lab fee required.
Mock Trial - (1 credit) (CTEC)
11th –12th grade
Prerequisite: Political Science or Court Systems and Practices
This course is designed to foster a better understanding of the civil and criminal trial process through
simulation and the study of actual as well as fictitious crimes. Students will simulate every level or trial
from opening/closing arguments, direct questioning, jury participation and sentencing. Repeat
enrollment not permitted. Students are required to remain in the course for the full year due to course
operations.  Lab fee required.
Foreign Services and Diplomacy - (1 credit) (CTEC)
11th –12th grade
Prerequisite: Political Science or Mock Trial
Foreign Service and Diplomacy provides the opportunity for students to investigate how the United
States works with or against foreign powers. The course includes law, history, America’s relationships
with other countries, diplomacy as a career, and international relations associated with the diplomatic
environment.
Practicum in Government - (2 credits) (CTEC)
12th grade
Prerequisite:  Mock Trial, Program Qualification Form Required
The practicum course is an unpaid capstone experience for students participating in a coherent
sequence of courses in the Government and Public Administration cluster. Students concurrently learn
advanced concepts of political science, criminal, and civil law in the classroom setting. In addition,
students will apply technical skills pertaining to government and public administration in a direct
mentorship by individuals in professional settings such as government, public management and
administration, criminal and civil litigation, municipal planning, foreign service, revenue, taxation, and
regulation. Materials fee may be required for this course. Students must provide their own
transportation to and from the off-campus field site. Fingerprint and/or background check may be
required based on field site.
Medical Terminology - (1 credit)
9th –12th grade
Prerequisite: None
This course is designed to introduce students to the structure of medical terms, including prefixes,
suffixes, word roots, combining forms, and singular and plural forms, plus medical abbreviations and
acronyms. The course allows students to achieve comprehension of medical vocabulary appropriate to
medical procedures, human anatomy and physiology, and pathophysiology.
Anatomy & Physiology - This course is taken at the home campus. See description under Science
course offerings.
Health Science - (1 credit)
10th –12th grade
Prerequisite: Biology and Medical Terminology
Collin College Articulated Credit – HPRS 1271
This course is designed to provide students an overview of the therapeutic, diagnostic, health
informatics, support services, biotechnology research, and development systems of the healthcare
industry along with the requirements necessary to further their education to succeed in current or
emerging healthcare profession.  Through the instructional content aligned with challenging academic
standards and relevant technical knowledge and skills, students should learn to reason, think critically,
make decisions, solve problems, communicate effectively, and recognize that quality health care
depends on the ability to collaborate well with others.  Materials fee may be required for this course,
plus fee for certification.
Health Science Clinical - (2 credits) (CTEC)
11th –12th grade
Prerequisite: Health Science AND Co/Prerequisite Anatomy & Physiology,
Collin College Dual Credit Selection & Enrollment Required, American Heart Association Basic
Life Support CPR certification
Collin College Dual Credit – (Fall semester only) – NURA 1301& NURA 1160 (This is a year-long
class but weighted credit is only awarded during the Fall semester. Spring semester is a
Regular high school weighted course.) This course is designed to give students practical application
of previously studied knowledge and skills. This course provides intensive classroom and clinical study
of healthcare and patient care skills. The practicum is designed to give students supervised practical
application of knowledge and skills in the medical field. Practicum experiences occur in various medical
facilities under the supervision of medical professionals. Clinical settings for practicum experiences may
vary from course to course. To be prepared for careers in the medical field, students must acquire
technical knowledge in the discipline as well as apply academic skills in mathematics and science.
During this course, students will take the Texas Nurse Aide certification exam and become Certified
Nurse Aides (CNA). CNA testing timelines may vary from course to course.  Immunizations, TB tests,
flu shot and drug screen are required. Materials fee ranging from $125-$150 required, plus fees for
certification exams. Students must provide their own transportation to and from off-campus sites.
Future Ready Health Care - (1 credit) (CTEC and Baylor Scott & White Frisco)
11th-12th grade
Prerequisite: Health Science AND Co/Prerequisite Anatomy & Physiology
Program Qualification Form Required
Seats are limited. Students must provide their own transportation to and from off-campus sites.
This course is designed to expose students to the various careers associated with the medical
profession within a hospital setting. Students will see how digital technologies are integrated into the
traditional hospital setting. The course will challenge students to solve some of the complexities in what
future health care may entail. Students will be exposed to emerging technologies such as 3D printing
for surgeries, robotic process automation, virtual reality, biomedical testing/repair, prosthetics and
artificial intelligence to improve the patient experience. Collaboration, the ability to think creatively and
critically resulting in a culminating innovative project will be the crux of this course. Immunizations, TB
tests, flu shot and drug screen are required.
Medical Microbiology - (1 credit) (CTEC)
11th-12th grade
Prerequisite: Biology, Chemistry, and Anatomy & Physiology
Medical Microbiology is a college preparatory and laboratory-oriented course that will provide
opportunities for the student to identify and culture microorganisms that are of interest in the medical
field. The student will learn lab techniques for working safely with microorganisms and will investigate
the physiological effects of various microorganisms on the human body. The course is intended to
provide high school exposure to microbiology concepts for the students who are particularly interested
in a health-related career track or for the students who are interested in the biological sciences.
Materials fee are required for this course. This course may qualify as a science credit.
Pathophysiology - (1 credit) (CTEC)
11th-12th grade
Prerequisite: Biology, Chemistry, and Anatomy & Physiology
Pathophysiology is a college preparatory and laboratory-oriented course that will provide opportunities
for the student to study the nature of disease, its causes, and the various effects diseases have on the
human body. The student will apply proper lab techniques to the study of healthy and diseased tissue
and be able to recognize samples of each. The course is intended for the student who is particularly
interested in a health-related career track or for the student who is interested in the biological sciences.
Materials fee may be required for this course. This course may qualify as a science credit.
Pharmacy Technician - (2 credits) (Collin College)
11th-12th grade
Prerequisite: Medical Terminology & Health Science, Collin College Dual Credit Selection &
Enrollment Required
Collin College Dual Credit – PHRA 1201, PHRA 1305, PHRA 1209, PHRA 1313, PHRA 1349, PHRA
This course will equip students with knowledge, technical skills, and work habits required for a Certified
Pharmacy Technician. They will develop an understanding of pharmaceutics and its impact on the
healthcare industry. Students will be given Sterile Products (IV) training prior to completion of the
course and are eligible to sit for the National Sterile Products (IV) Certification exam. In addition,
students will have the opportunity to sit for the Pharmacy Technician Certification Exam (PTCE) once
they successfully complete the course.  Students will be required to participate in a clinical rotation with
retail and hospital pharmacies.  Immunization records, TB test, flu shot and two drug screens are
required.  Students must have a Social Security # to participate in this course.  Materials, testing, and
certification fees are required. Students must provide their own transportation to and from off-campus
sites.
Practicum in Health Science (EKG & Phlebotomy) - (2 credits) (CTEC)
12th grade
Prerequisite: Health Science Clinical, CNA Certified, Collin College Dual Credit Selection &
Enrollment Required
Collin College Dual Credit - DSAE 1340, HPRS 1160, PLAB 1323
This dual credit Collin College course is a hospital/mentor specific course designed to give students
opportunities for practical application of previously studied knowledge and skills relating to health care.
Students are encouraged to find specific healthcare mentors in a clinical setting. Students continue
development of clinical skills and study the Electrocardiogram Technician course and the curriculum for
Phlebotomy Technician. We will then be ready for a Patient Care Technician (PCT) certification test.
After attaining a PCT certification, the student will be qualified to do EKGs and to draw blood from
patients and be a critical team member of hospitals. Therefore, this course prepares students for
employment in hospitals or other health care settings under the supervision of registered nurses or
physicians, with continued emphasis on the student’s ability to reason, think critically, make decisions,
solve problems, and communicate effectively. Students are expected to employ their ethical and legal
responsibilities and limitations and understand the implications of their actions and understand the
liability and accountability needed to safely perform within their scope of practice. Scrubs,
Immunizations, TB tests, flu shot and drug screen are required. Materials fee ranging from $125- $150
required, plus testing fees for certification exams. Students must provide their own transportation to and
from off-campus sites.
Rehabilitation Aide - (2 credits) (Collin College)
11th - 12th grade
Prerequisite: Medical Terminology & Health Science, Collin College Dual Credit Selection &
Enrollment Required
Collin College Dual Credit – HPRS 2232, PTHA 1409, PTHA 1413, PTHA 1160
This course is for anyone interested in pursuing a career in physical therapy, occupational therapy,
chiropractic, medicine, massage, personal training, and other related medical fields. This course offers
in-depth education with hands-on experience in the rehabilitation field.
Medical Scribe – (2 credits) (Online or Collin College)
11th - 12th grade
Prerequisite: Medical Terminology & Health Science, Collin College Dual Credit Selection &
Enrollment Required
Collin College Dual Credit – HITT 1305, HPRS 2321, MDCA 1309, MDCA 1321
A medical scribe works in a healthcare facility, helping to improve accuracy and efficiency in the
recording of a patients' medical history. They do this through documenting the physician-patient
interaction, taking notes during patient interviews, entering information into the Electronic Medical
Record, and writing notes that the physician has dictated. The goal is to ensure that the doctor can
focus on the treatment of the patient, rather than on clerical work.
Survey of Hospitality and Tourism - (1 credit)
9th –12th grade
Prerequisite: None
The hospitality and tourism industry encompasses lodging; travel and tourism; recreation, amusements,
attractions, and resorts; and restaurants and food beverage service. The hospitality and tourism
industry maintains the largest national employment base in the private sector. Students use knowledge
and skills that meet industry standards to function effectively in various positions within this multifaceted
industry. Students are encouraged to participate in extended learning experiences such as career and
technical student organizations and other leadership or extracurricular organizations.
Hotel Management - (1 credit) (CTEC)
10th –12th grade
Prerequisite or Co-requisite: Survey of Hospitality and Tourism
Students will study the lodging industry including hotels and resorts and will gain insight into different
departments within a hotel such as front desk, food and beverage, housekeeping, maintenance, human
resources, and accounting. Students will learn about the daily operations of a well-managed hotel.
Hotel Management students will plan and design their own hotel collaborating with other CTEC classes.
Students will have the opportunity to earn nationally recognized industry certification(s).  Students are
encouraged to participate in DECA at the CTE Center and/or home-campus.
Travel and Tourism Management - (1 credit)
10th –12th grade
Prerequisite: Survey of Hospitality and Tourism
This course incorporates management principles and procedures of the travel and tourism industry as
well as destination geography, airlines, international travel, cruising, travel by rail, lodging, recreation,
amusements, attractions, and resorts. Employment qualifications and opportunities are also included in
this course. Students are encouraged to participate in extended learning experiences such as career
and technical student organizations and other leadership or extracurricular organizations.
Hospitality Services - (2 credits) (CTEC)
11th –12th grade
Prerequisite: Hotel Management, Travel & Tourism Management or Introduction to Culinary Arts
Hospitality Services provides students the opportunity to learn more about careers in the hospitality
industry including hotels, restaurants, and hospitality venues.  In addition to classroom instruction,
students will gain real-world experience by job shadowing during the year at a local hotel.  Students will
learn first-hand about the operations of a hotel by working with hotel professionals in the following
departments:  front desk, food & beverage, maintenance, housekeeping and accounting. Hospitality
Services students will have the opportunity to earn nationally recognized industry certification(s).  This
course will focus on employability skills, communications skills and professionalism.  Students are
encouraged to participate in DECA at the CTE Center and/or home-campus. Students must provide
their own transportation to and from field sites.
Practicum in Hospitality Services - (2 Credits) (CTEC)
12th grade
Prerequisite: Hospitality Services
Practicum in Hospitality Services is the 2nd year program for students interested in a hospitality
industry internship.  The course allows opportunities for students to learn through both classroom
instruction and interning at a local hotel or other hospitality-related business.  Students will develop
employability skills, job-specific skills related to individual training plan, communication skills, and
career portfolio development. The goal of the program is to prepare hospitality students with a variety of
skills for a fast-paced workplace as well as prepare students for post-secondary and career success.
Students will have the opportunity to participate in DECA at the CTE Center and/or home-campus.
Students must provide their own transportation to and from field sites.
Introduction to Culinary Arts - (1 credit)
10th –12th grade
Prerequisite: None
During this full year course, students will pursue a Texas Food Handlers food safety certification. This
course is also designed to introduce students to the methods and concepts of food preparation.
Laboratory practice will parallel class work. Also, included in this course are the different aspects of the
restaurant setting, including both front and back of the house. Students will have the opportunity to
participate in related career and technical organizations & educational study trips as well as explore
career opportunities and pathways in the Hospitality & Tourism Program of Study. Testing and
materials fee is required for this course.
Culinary Arts I - (2 credits) (CTEC)
11th –12th grade
Prerequisite: Introduction to Culinary Arts, ServSafe Managers or Foodhandlers Certification,
Program Qualification Form Required
Texas Food Handlers and/or ServSafe Managers Certification is REQUIRED. Culinary Arts begins with
the fundamentals and principles of the art of cooking and the science of baking and includes
management and production skills and techniques. This course offers direct hands-on experience and
instruction in Back of House, restaurant operations, as well as catering opportunities. Students must be
able to stand for long periods of time, as well as pick up/lift 10 pounds. Students need to grasp Algebra.
Students are encouraged to participate in extended learning experiences such as career and technical
student organizations and other leadership or extracurricular organizations. Materials fee is required for
this course. The one-year e-Foodhandlers certification will not be permissible to enter this class.
Food Science - (1 credit)
12th grade
Prerequisite: Biology and Chemistry
In Food Science students conduct laboratory and field investigations, use scientific methods during
investigations, and make informed decisions using critical thinking and scientific problem solving. Food
Science is the study of the nature of foods, the causes of deterioration, the principles underlying food
processing, and the improvement of foods for the consuming public.  This is a course designed to help
students understand and integrate the knowledge, skills and practices of the Food Science industry
through the application of the biochemistry of food and nutrition. Materials fee may be required for this
course. This course may qualify as a science credit.
Culinary Arts II - (2 credits) (CTEC)  NO LONGER DUAL CREDIT
12th grade
Prerequisite: Culinary Arts I, Current ServSafe Managers or Foodhandlers Certification,
Program Qualification Form Required, Texas Food Handlers and/or ServSafe Managers
Certification is REQUIRED.
This course is a unique advanced culinary arts that provides hands-on opportunities for students to
participate in a real commercial kitchen setting. Culinary Arts II integrates academic and career and
technical education; provides more interdisciplinary instruction; and supports strong partnerships
among schools, businesses, and community institutions with the goal of preparing students with a
variety of skills in a fast-changing workplace. Students are taught employability skills, which include job-
specific skills applicable to their training plan, job interview techniques, communication skills, financial
and budget activities, human relations, and portfolio development. Advanced Culinary Arts is relevant
and rigorous, supports student application of academic standards, and effectively prepares students for
college and career success. This course offers hands-on experience and instruction in both Front of the
House and Back of the House, restaurant operations, as well as catering opportunities. Students must
be able to stand for long periods of time, as well as pick up/lift 10 pounds. Students need to grasp
Algebra. Students are encouraged to participate in extended learning experiences such as career and
technical student organizations and other leadership or extracurricular organizations.
Baking and Pastry - (1 credit) (CTEC) (one semester course)
12th grade
Prerequisite: Culinary Arts with a 80% or higher average, Program Qualification Form Required
Collin College Dual Credit Enrollment Required
Collin College Dual Credit – PSTR 1301
This course covers the basic theory and skill sets used throughout the field of baking and pastry. Topics
covered include the use of hand tools and large equipment found in a bakeshop, as well as the
exploration of baking and pastry ingredients and their functions. Students will gain a working knowledge
of the major methods such as creaming, blending, foaming, piping, meringues, cut-in, straight dough,
quick breads, yeast breads, custards, frozen desserts, cake decorating, and sauces. Students will also
be introduced to advanced cake assembly, laminated doughs, chocolate work, plating, and specialty
showpieces. Students will also taste and evaluate products they create in class to enhance their
understanding of the course material. Course fee is required by Collin College.
Interpersonal Studies - (1/2 credit)
9th –12th grade
Prerequisite: None
This course examines how the relationships between individuals and family members can influence
personality and quality of life. Students use knowledge and skills in family studies and human
development to enhance and explore personal development, foster quality relationships, promote
wellness of family members, manage multiple adult roles, and pursue careers related to counseling and
mental health services. Students are encouraged to participate in extended learning experiences such
as career and technical student organizations and other leadership or extracurricular organizations.
Child Development - (1 credit)
10th –12th grade
Prerequisite: None
This technical laboratory course addresses parenting as well as the growth and development of
children. Students will explore knowledge and skills related to parenting, relationships, family dynamics,
child growth and development from prenatal through school-age children, equipping students with child
development skills. Students use these skills to promote the well-being and healthy development of
children and investigate careers related to the care and education of children. Students are encouraged
to participate in extended learning experiences such as career and technical student organizations and
other leadership or extracurricular organizations.
Survey of Information Technology – (1 credit)
9th –12th grade
Prerequisite: None
Students develop computer literacy skills to adapt to emerging technologies used in the global
marketplace. Students implement personal and interpersonal skills to prepare for a rapidly evolving
workplace environment. Students enhance reading, writing, computing, communication, and reasoning
skills and apply them to the information technology environment.
Computer Maintenance - (1 credit)
9th –12th grade
Prerequisite: Algebra I
Collin College Articulated Credit – CPMT 1305
Students acquire principles of computer maintenance, including electrical and electronic theory,
computer hardware principles, and broad-level components related to the installation, diagnosis,
service, and repair of computer systems. The computer maintenance curriculum offers a hands-on,
career-oriented learning experience with an emphasis on practical activities to help students develop
fundamental computer and career skills.  Computer Maintenance helps students prepare for entry level
career opportunities and the Comp TIA A+ Certification, which helps students to differentiate
themselves in the marketplace and advance their careers.”  This course may qualify as a technology
applications credit.
Cybersecurity - (1 credit) (CTEC)
10th - 12th grade
Prerequisites:  10th grader and completed one year of one of the following: Computer Science,
Computer Maintenance, or Internetworking I
This course develops the knowledge and skills needed to master fundamental concepts of
cybersecurity. Students in the course will develop a basic foundation for continuing their cybersecurity
education and choosing a career in the cybersecurity field. Students will explore the challenges facing
information security professionals related to ethics, system security, network security, and application
security. Students will conduct risk assessments and develop and implement security policies to
mitigate those risks. Students will examine trends in cyber-attacks, common vulnerabilities, and the
emergence of cyber terrorism.
Digital Media - (1 credit)
9th –12th grade
Prerequisite: None
Digital Media is a course designed to educate students on the emerging digital world as well as provide
hands on experience with industry standard software.  The knowledge and skills acquired will enable
students to successfully design digital graphics, create basic 2D animations, introductory video and
audio projects plus integrate it all together into a digital web portfolio.  There is a concentration in
printed graphic design as this course serves as prerequisite for Graphic Design and Illustration I.
Students are expected to employ planning and time management skills to complete projects.  This
course can be used to satisfy the technology applications credit.
Internetworking I (CISCO 1) - (1 credit) (CTEC) 10th –12th grade
Prerequisite: Computer Maintenance is Recommended
Collin College Articulated Credit - ITCC 1314 (CCNA 1)
This course will provide the students with basic networking terminology and models, CISCO software
commands, and configuration of routing protocols and IPv4 and IPv6 addresses. This is the first year of
a two-year program. This class cannot be used as the required technology applications credit.
Internetworking II (CISCO 2 and 3) - (1 credit) (CTEC) 11th- 12th  grade
Prerequisite: Internet Working I (full year), passing score on CISCO 1 exams
Collin College Dual Credit - ITCC 1344 (CCNA 2) and ITCC 2320 (CCNA 3)
Course will provide the students with the knowledge of how to configure CISCO routers and switches
and setup LAN/WAN networks. This is the second year of a two-year program. After the second
semester of this class, the students will be prepared to take the CISCO Certified Network Associate
(CCNA) exam. This class cannot be used as the required technology applications credit.
Computer Science - (1 credit)
9th –12th grade
Prerequisite: Algebra I
This is a beginner’s level approach to computer programming using the Java language. No previous
knowledge of programming is necessary. Students will develop and apply algorithms to solve real-world
problems. Programming concepts will be taught using structured programming techniques such as data
types, program input/output, if statements, loops, arrays, and lists. Object-oriented programming will
also be introduced. Other topics include debugging, hardware components, and social implications of
computer systems.  Upon completion of this course, the student will have created software programs
using computer science programming concepts. This course can be used to satisfy the technology
applications credit.
Computer Science I Advanced - (1 credit)
9th –12th grade
Prerequisite: Algebra I
This course covers the same topics as on-level Computer Science but in greater depth and rigor. No
previous knowledge of programming is necessary; however, students need excellent reasoning abilities
and problem solving skills. Object-oriented concepts will receive more emphasis. This course is
designed as a preparation for programming at the college level. This course can be used to satisfy the
technology applications credit.
AP Computer Science Principles - (1 credit)
9th - 12th Grade
Prerequisite: Algebra I
AP Computer Science Principles is an introductory college-level computing course. Students cultivate
their understanding of computer science through working with data, collaborating to solve problems,
and developing computer solutions as they explore concepts like creativity, abstraction, data and
information, algorithms, programming, the internet, and the global impact of computing. Unlike AP
Computer Science A, which is taught in Java, the AP Computer Science Principles course does not
have a designated programming language. This is an introductory course; however, students interested
in higher level computer science courses should review our course pathway that begins with Computer
Science, followed by AP Computer Science A. This course can be used to satisfy the technology
applications credit.
AP Computer Science A - (2 credits)
10th –12th grade
Prerequisite: Computer Science I Advanced or Computer Science
This course continues the study of computer programming using the Java language. Object oriented
programming and class design will be studied in depth. Topics include 2D arrays, searching and sorting
algorithms, and recursion. Social and ethical ramifications of computer in society will also be addressed.
Programming assignments will, in general, be more extensive, and include the use of case studies. This
course is intended for students who want to pursue careers in computer science, mathematics,
engineering, or science. This college level course prepares students for the AP Computer Science A
Exam. This course qualifies as a math credit in the first semester and a world language credit in the
second semester. This is a single blocked course. This course can be used to satisfy the technology
applications credit.
Computer Science III Advanced - (1 credit)
11th –12th grade
Prerequisite: AP Computer Science A
This course continues the study of computer programming using Java. Students must have mastered
the topics in AP Computer Science A. This mastery is needed because this course is a study of classic
data structures including linked lists, stacks, queues, trees, heaps, priority queues, and their application
to algorithms such as quick-sort and heap-sort. Students will also be introduced to graph theory and
extend their knowledge of recursive algorithms. Other topics may be included, such as advanced GUI
techniques, multi-threaded programs, networked applications, and number theory. Students in this
course will receive the same weighted GPA as all AP Courses. This course can be used to satisfy the
technology applications credit.
Mobile Application Programming - (1 credit) (CTEC)
11th –12th grade
Prerequisite: AP Computer Science A, Computer Science I Advanced, or Computer Science
Students are strongly recommended to complete AP Computer Science A before attempting this
advanced course. We will apply previously learned object-oriented programming techniques and rules
of inheritance (super/sub classes, abstract classes, and interfaces) to Apple’s iOS API’s. Because of
the dynamic nature of development for mobile devices, students will need to be independent learners;
most apps will require significant research to complete, and students will work independently for most
of the year. Significant group projects will expose students to the challenges of working in teams and
develop project management & interpersonal skills. Students will code in the Swift programming
language using the Xcode IDE, building apps for devices such as iPhone, iPod Touch, and iPad.
Additionally, students will analyze the responsibility of software professionals regarding issues of the
environment, ethics, health, safety, and diversity in society and in the workplace.
Video Game Programming I - (1 credit) (CTEC)
10th –12th grade
Prerequisite: Computer Science, Computer Science I Advanced, or AP Computer Science A
This is a rigorous introduction to video game programming. Students must have mastered the topics
previously covered in Computer Science. Students will extend their knowledge and skill in programming
through the study of game topics including: game state and the game loop, basic display and
interaction of on-screen objects, object-oriented programming concepts, user interface design, and 2D
game techniques. Students will program using the C# language; development environments may
include Visual Studio, XNA, MonoGame, and Unity. Our primary game platform will be the PC; some
students may program for other platforms. Significant group projects will expose students to the
challenges of working in teams and develop project management & interpersonal skills.
Video Game Programming II - (1 credit) (CTEC)
11th –12th grade
Prerequisite: Video Game Programming
This course continues the study of video game programming. Using languages such as C# and C++,
and advanced game engines such as Unity and Unreal, students will be introduced to 3D game
development. Topics will include: object-oriented programming; program architecture; integrating code,
art assets, and level/scene design into a complete game. During the spring semester, students will form
a studio team with Animation students to develop a video game. This major project will expose students
to the challenges of working in interdisciplinary teams and develop project management & interpersonal
skills.
Survey of Law, Public Safety, Corrections, and Security - (1 credit) (CTEC)
9th –11th grade
Prerequisite: None
This course introduces students to professions in law enforcement, security, corrections, and fire and
emergency management services. Students will examine the roles and responsibilities of police, courts,
corrections, private security and protective agencies of fire and emergency services. The course
provides students with an overview of the skills necessary for careers in law enforcement, fire service,
security and corrections. Fee for CPR certification may be required.
Law Enforcement l - (1 credit) (CTEC)
10th –12th grade
Prerequisite: Survey of Law, Public Safety, Corrections & Security
Law Enforcement I is an overview of the history, organization, and functions of local, state and federal
law enforcement. This course includes the role of constitutional law, the United States legal system,
criminal law, law enforcement terminology and the classification and elements of crime.
Law Enforcement II - (1 credit) (CTEC)
11th –12th grade
Prerequisite: Law Enforcement I
Law Enforcement II is designed to provide the students the knowledge and skills necessary for a career
in Law Enforcement. The course includes the ethical and legal responsibilities of law enforcement
personnel, operation of police and emergency telecommunicator equipment and courtroom testimony.
Students will take the knowledge learned in Law Enforcement I to a higher level. Students will apply
knowledge and skills through hands-on, field based experiences using classroom projects and
activities.
Forensic Science - (1 credit) (CTEC)
12th grade
Prerequisite: Law Enforcement I, Biology & Chemistry
Forensic Science is a course that uses a structured and scientific approach to the investigation of
crimes of assault, abuse and neglect, domestic violence, accidental death, homicide, and the
psychology of criminal behavior. Students will learn terminology and investigative procedures related to
crime scene, questioning, interviewing, criminal behavior characteristics, truth detection, and scientific
procedures used to solve crimes. Using scientific methods, students will collect and analyze evidence
through case studies and simulated crime scenes such as fingerprint analysis, ballistics, and blood
spatter analysis. Students will learn the history, legal aspects and career options for forensic science.
This course may qualify as a science credit.
Introduction to Welding - (1 credit) (CTEC)
11th - 12th grade
Prerequisite: Agricultural Structures Design and Fabrication
This Career and Technical course is for students interested in welding as a career. Training for
employment with entry-level skills in welding trades will be emphasized.  Oxy-fuel welding and cutting,
plasma arc cutting, shielded metal arc welding, gas metal arc welding, flux cored arc welding, and gas
tungsten arc welding will be covered. Hand and power tools, welding on various types of metals,
reading blueprint welding symbols, metal characteristics, and equipment setup are other areas that
students master. Safety, leadership, entrepreneurship, and career opportunities are included. Materials
fee may be required for this course.
Survey of Business, Marketing and Finance - (1 credit)
9th –12th grade
Prerequisite: None
In Survey of Business, Marketing, and Finance, students gain knowledge and skills in economies and
private enterprise systems, the impact of global business, marketing of goods and services, advertising,
and product pricing. Students analyze the sales process and financial management principles. This
course allows students to reinforce, apply, and transfer academic knowledge and skills to a variety of
interesting and relevant activities, problems and settings in business, marketing, and finance.
Social Media Marketing - (1/2 credit)
9th –12th grade
Prerequisite: None
Social Media Marketing is designed to look at the rise of social media and how marketers are
integrating social media tools in their overall marketing strategy. The course will investigate how the
marketing community measures success in the new world of social media. Students will manage a
successful social media presence for an organization, understand techniques for gaining customer and
consumer buy-in to achieve marketing goals, and properly select social media platforms to engage
consumers and monitor and measure the results of these efforts. The curriculum will present embedded
DECA principles and project-based learning that will give the students the opportunity to apply newly
acquired marketing skills in real world situations.
Advertising - (1/2 credit)
9th –12th grade
Prerequisite: None
Advertising is designed as a comprehensive introduction to the principles and practices of advertising.
Students will gain knowledge of techniques used in current advertising, including print, broadcast, and
digital media. The course explores the social, ethical, and legal issues of advertising, historical
influences, strategies, and media decision processes as well as integrated marketing communications.
The course provides an overview of how communication tools can be used to reach target audiences
and increase consumer knowledge. The curriculum will present embedded DECA principles and
project-based learning that will give the students the opportunity to apply newly acquired marketing
skills in real world situations.
Introduction to Esports – (1 credit)
9th - 12th grade
Prerequisite: None
Students will explore career pathway interests within the esports industry and will gain skills related to
broadcasting, video game programming, social media marketing, entrepreneurship, and A/V
production.  The course will investigate topics related to health and wellness and the gaming culture.
This course can be used to satisfy the technology applications credit.
Sports and Entertainment Marketing (1/2 credit)
10th –12th grade
Prerequisite: None
This course will provide students with a thorough understanding of the marketing concepts and theories
that apply to sports and sporting events and entertainment. The areas this course will cover include
basic marketing, target marketing and segmentation, sponsorship, event marketing, promotions,
sponsorship proposals, and implementation of sports and entertainment marketing plans. This course
will also provide students an opportunity to develop promotional plans, sponsorship proposals,
endorsement contracts, sports and entertainment marketing plans, and evaluation and management
techniques. The curriculum will present embedded DECA principles and project-based learning that will
give the students the opportunity to apply newly acquired marketing skills in real world situations.
Entrepreneurship - (1 credit)
10th –12th grade
Prerequisite: None
Students will gain the knowledge and skills needed to become an entrepreneur. Students will learn the
principles necessary to begin and operate a business. The primary focus of the course is to help
students understand the process of analyzing a business opportunity, preparing a business plan,
determining feasibility of an idea using research, and developing a plan to organize and promote the
business and its products and services. In addition, students understand the capital required, the return
on investment desired, and the potential for profit. The curriculum will present embedded DECA
principles and project-based learning that will give the students the opportunity to apply newly acquired
marketing skills in real world situations.
INCubatoredu - (1 credit) - (only offered at Centennial, Frisco, Heritage, Lone
Star)
10th –12th grade
Required: Program Qualification Form
The Frisco ISD Business Incubator program uses the INCubatoredu curriculum and offers
students an authentic entrepreneurship experience. Throughout the program, students ideate,
develop and iterate their own product or service startup in an attempt to gain investment funds
in a final shark-tank style pitch event. Real entrepreneurs and business experts serve as
volunteer coaches and mentors guiding student teams through the processes of developing
hypotheses about a business concept, testing those hypotheses, adapting, and continually
learning and improving. The primary focus of this course is to help students understand the
process of analyzing a business opportunity, preparing a business plan, determining feasibility
of an idea using research, and developing a plan to organize and promote the business and its
products and services.
ACCELeratoredu - (1 credit) – (only offered at Centennial, Frisco, Heritage, Lone Star)
11th –12th grade
Prerequisite: INCubatoredu
Required: Program Qualification Form
As a complement to the INCubatoredu course, ACCELeratoredu fosters startup development to
transition the business founded in INCubatoredu into a sustainable, functioning business. This
includes growing customer pipeline and processing, submitting legal documents to become a
recognized entity at the state and federal level, creating contracts or terms and agreements for
customers, developing the typical operating systems for the business, and continuing to build,
test, and iterate the product or service. Throughout the program, students work through three
major areas of content: customer acquisition, business process, and product production.
Students leave the course having gained traction in the marketplace to successfully launch their
company.
Fashion Marketing - (1/2 credit)
9th –12th grade
Prerequisite: None
Fashion Marketing is designed to provide students with knowledge of the various business functions in
the fashion industry. Students in Fashion Marketing will gain a working knowledge of promotion,
textiles, merchandising, mathematics, selling, visual merchandising, and career opportunities. The
curriculum will present embedded DECA principles and project-based learning that will give the
students the opportunity to apply newly acquired marketing skills in real world situations. Materials fee
may be required for this course.
Practicum in Marketing I (Work-Based Learning) - (3 credits) (CTEC)
11th – 12th grade
Prerequisite: Program Qualification Form and Interview Required
Students gain knowledge and skills that help them become proficient in one or more of the marketing
functional areas associated with distribution, financing, marketing information management, pricing,
product planning, promotion, purchasing, risk management, and selling skills. Students will integrate
skills from academic subjects, information technology, interpersonal communication, and management
training to make responsible decisions. The practicum course is a paid (job after school hours) career
experience for students participating in a coherent sequence of career and technical courses in
marketing education. The curriculum will present project-based learning activities that will give the
students the opportunity to apply newly acquired marketing skills in real world situations. Students must
provide their own transportation to and from their off-campus employment.
Practicum in Marketing II (Work-Based Learning) - (3 credits) (CTEC)
12th grade
Prerequisite: Practicum in Marketing I, Program Qualification Form and Interview Required
This course is designed to be the follow-up course to Practicum in Marketing I. Students gain
knowledge and skills that help them become proficient in one or more of the marketing functional areas.
Students will illustrate appropriate management and research skills to create the marketing mix. This
course covers technology, communication, customer-service, and management level skills. The
practicum course is a paid (job after school hours) career experience for students participating in a
coherent sequence of career and technical education courses in marketing education. The curriculum
will present project-based learning activities that will give the students the opportunity to apply newly
acquired marketing skills in real world situations. Students must provide their own transportation to and
from their off-campus employment.
Sports Management - (2 Credits) (CTEC or Home Campus)
12th grade Collin College Articulated Credit – KINE 1336
Prerequisite: Sports & Entertainment Marketing AND at least one of the following courses:
Advertising, Social Media Marketing, Professional Communications or BIM.
Required: Program Qualification Form and Interview
The Sports Management course is an Internship Program for second year Sports & Entertainment
Marketing students who are serious about pursuing a career in sports and/or entertainment fields. Work
experience will consist of an unpaid internship with one or more businesses over the course of the
school year. Possible areas of work include but are not limited to: Ticket Sales, Customer Service,
Facility and Event Operations, Social Media and Web Development, Public Relations and
Communications, Athletic Training Center Operations, Recreational Sports and Marketing Sales and
Service. In addition to the internship experience, time will also provide enrichment opportunities
including guest speakers, class and virtual instruction, and on-site visits to venues in Frisco and the
Dallas/Fort Worth area pertaining to sports and entertainment. Since students in this class will be
functioning directly in a sports/entertainment environment, it is important that they have excellent
communication, computer, reading and writing skills. DECA membership fee may be required for this
course. Students must provide their own transportation to and from off-campus internship site.
PLTW – Intro to Engineering Design - (1 credit) (CTEC)
9th –12th grade
Prerequisite: Full Algebra I credit (passing score on Algebra I EOC strongly recommended)
Introduction to Engineering Design (IED) is a high school level course that is appropriate for any high
school students who are interested in design and engineering. The major focus of the IED course is to
expose students to design process, research and analysis, teamwork, communication methods, global
and human impacts, engineering standards, and technical documentation. IED gives students the
opportunity to develop skills and understanding of course concepts through activity-, project-, and
problem-based learning. Students will develop problem-solving skills and apply their knowledge of
research and design to create solutions to various challenges that increase in difficulty throughout the
course. In addition, students use Inventor, which is a state of the art 3D design software package from
Autodesk, to help them design solutions to solve proposed problems. Students will also learn how to
document their work, and communicate their solutions to their peers and members of the professional
community. This course is a portion of the FISD Pre-Engineering Program that is associated with
“Project Lead the Way” curriculum that can lead to university credit. Materials fee may be required for
this course. This course can be used to satisfy the technology applications credit.
PLTW - Principles of Engineering - (1 credit) (CTEC)
10th –12th grade
Prerequisite: Full Introduction to Engineering Design credit
Principles of Engineering (POE) is a course that helps students understand the field of
engineering/engineering technology. Exploring various technology systems and manufacturing
processes that will help students learn how engineers and technicians use math, science and
technology in an engineering problem-solving process to benefit people. The course also includes
concerns about social and political consequences of technological change. This course is a portion of
the FISD Pre-Engineering Program that is associated with “Project Lead the Way” curriculum that can
lead to university credit. Materials fee may be required for this course.
PLTW - Civil Engineering & Architecture - (1 credit) (CTEC)
11th –12th grade
Prerequisite: Full Introduction to Engineering Design credit
Civil Engineering and Architecture (CEA) is a course that is structured to enable all students to have a
variety of experiences that will provide an overview of both fields. Students work in teams, exploring
hands-on projects and activities to learn the characteristics of civil engineering and architecture. In
addition, students use Revit, which is a state of the art 3D design software package from Autodesk, to
help them design solutions to solve their major course project. This course is a portion of the FISD Pre-
Engineering Program that is associated with “Project Lead the Way” curriculum that can lead to
university credit. Materials fee may be required for this course.
PLTW - Digital Electronics - (1 credit) (CTEC)
11th –12th grade
Prerequisite: Full Principles of Engineering credit
Digital Electronics (DE) is the study of electronic circuits that are used to process and control digital
signals. The major focus of the DE course is to expose students to the design process of combinational
and sequential logic design, teamwork, communication methods, engineering standards, and technical
documentation. Students will analyze, design and build digital electronic circuits. This course is a
portion of the FISD Pre-Engineering Program that is associated with “Project Lead the Way” curriculum
that can lead to university credit. Materials fee may be required for this course.
PLTW - Aerospace Engineering - (1 credit) (CTEC)
11th –12th grade
Prerequisite: Full Principles of Engineering credit
Aerospace Engineering ignites students’ learning in the fundamentals of atmospheric and space flight.
Aerospace Engineering is one of the specialization courses in the PLTW Engineering program. The
course deepens the skills and knowledge of an engineering student within the context of atmospheric
and space flight. Students explore the fundamentals of flight in air and space as they bring the concepts
to life by designing and testing components related to flight such as an airfoil, propulsion system, and a
rocket. They learn orbital mechanics concepts and apply these by creating models using industry-
standard software. They also apply aerospace concepts to alternative applications such as a wind
turbine and parachute. Students simulate a progression of operations to explore a planet, including
creating a map of the terrain with a model satellite and using the map to execute a mission using an
autonomous robot. This course is a portion of the FISD Pre-Engineering Program that is associated
with “Project Lead the Way” curriculum that can lead to university credit. Materials fee may be required
for this course.
PLTW - Engineering Design and Development - (1 credit) (CTEC)
12th grade
Prerequisite: Full Principles of Engineering credit and 3rd PLTW course credit or concurrently
taking 3rd PLTW course
Engineering Design and Development (EDD) is a research course that requires students to formulate
the solution to an open-ended engineering question. With a community mentor and skills gained in their
previous courses, students create written reports on their applications, defend the reports, and submit
them to a panel of outside reviewers at the end of the school year. This course is a portion of the FISD
Pre-Engineering Program that is associated with “Project Lead the Way” curriculum. Materials fee may
be required for this course.
Collin College DUAL CREDIT Internetworking II/ CISCO II and III - (1 credit) (CTEC)
11th or 12th grade
Prerequisite: Internet Working I (full year), passing score on CISCO I exam Collin College Dual Credit Enrollment Required
CISCO II and III will provide the students with the knowledge of how to configure CISCO routers and
switches and setup LAN/WAN networks. This is the second year of a two-
year program. After the second semester of this class, the students will be prepared to take the
CISCO Certified Network Associate (CCNA) exam. This class cannot be used as
the required technology applications credit.
Rehabilitation Aide - (2 credits) (Collin College)
11th-12th grade
Prerequisite: Medical Terminology & Health Science, Collin College Dual Credit Selection & Enrollment Required
Collin College Dual Credit – HPRS 2232, PTHA 1409, PTHA 1413, PTHA 1160
This course is for anyone interested in pursuing a career in physical therapy, occupational therapy,
chiropractic, medicine, massage, personal training, and other related medical fields. This course offers
in-depth education with hands-on experience in the rehabilitation field.
Medical Scribe – (2 credits) (Online or Collin College)
11th - 12th grade
Prerequisite: Medical Terminology & Health Science, Collin College Dual Credit Selection & Enrollment Required
Collin College Dual Credit – HITT 1305, HPRS 2321, MDCA 1309, MDCA 1321
A medical scribe works in a healthcare facility, helping to improve accuracy and efficiency in the
recording of a patients' medical history. They do this through documenting the physician-patient
interaction, taking notes during patient interviews, entering information into the Electronic Medical
Record, and writing notes that the physician has dictated. The goal is to ensure that the doctor can
focus on the treatment of the patient, rather than on clerical work.
HITT 1305 Medical Terminology I (3 credits) (ONLINE)
11th –12th grade
Study of medical terms through word origin and structure. Introduction to abbreviations and symbols,
surgical and diagnostic procedures, and medical specialties. 3 credit hours
HITT 1345 Health Care Delivery Systems (3 credits) (ONLINE)
11th –12th grade
Examination of delivery systems including organization, financing, accreditation, licensure, and
regulatory agencies. This course covers alternative health care delivery systems. Lab required. 3 credit
hours.
HITT 1353 Legal and Ethical Aspects of Health Information (3 credits) (ONLINE)
11th –12th grade
Concepts of privacy, security, confidentiality, ethics, health care legislation, and regulations relating to
the maintenance and use of health information. Prerequisite: HITT 1305. 3 credit hours.
HITT 2328 Introduction to Public Health  (3 credits) (ONLINE)
11th –12th grade
A survey of how health care and public health services are organized and delivered in the U.S. Covers
public policy, relevant organizations and their interrelationships, professional roles, legal and regulatory
issues, and payment systems. Includes health reform initiatives in the U.S. 3 credit hours.
HPRS 2232 Healthcare Communications (2 credits) (ONLINE)
11th –12th grade
Methods of communication with clients, client support groups, healthcare professionals, and external
agencies. 2 credit hours.
EDUC 1300 – Education - Learning Framework – (1/2 credit)
Prerequisite: Meet eligibility requirements
A study of the 1) research and theory in the psychology of learning, cognition, and motivation, 2) factors
that impact learning, and 3) application of learning strategies. Theoretical models of strategic learning,
cognition, and motivation serve as the conceptual basis for the introduction of college-level student
academic strategies. Students use assessment instruments (e.g. learning inventories) to help them
identify their own strengths and weaknesses as strategic learners. Students are ultimately expected to
integrate and apply the learning skills discussed across their own academic programs and become
effective and efficient learners. Students developing these skills should be able to continually draw from
the theoretical models they have learned. 3 credit hours. This course satisfies ½ elective credit toward
high school graduation. Students who have taken high school Psychology may enroll in this dual credit
course.
SOCI 1301 Introduction to Sociology – (1/2 credit)
Prerequisite: Meet eligibility requirements
The scientific study of human society, including ways in which groups, social institutions, and
individuals affect each other. Causes of social stability and social change are explored through the
application of various theoretical perspectives, key concepts, and related research methods of
sociology. Analysis of social issues in their institutional context may include topics such as social
stratification, gender, race/ethnicity, and deviance. 3 credit hours. This course satisfies ½ elective credit
toward high school graduation.
ARTS 1301 – Art Appreciation (1/2 credit)
Prerequisite: Meet eligibility requirements
A general introduction to the visual arts designed to create an appreciation of the vocabulary, media,
techniques, and purposes of the creative process. Students will critically interpret and evaluate works of
art within formal, cultural, and historical context.
3 credit hours. This course satisfies ½ elective credit toward high school graduation. Please note that it
cannot be used to count toward the required 1 Fine Arts credit, as it is only ½ credit and has no
required second-semester course pairing.
IB Theory of Knowledge - (1 credit)
11th – 12th grade
The theory of knowledge (TOK) course plays a special role in the DP by providing an opportunity for
students to reflect on the nature, scope, and limitations of knowledge and the process of knowing. The
main focus of TOK is not on students acquiring new knowledge but on helping students to reflect on,
and put into perspective, what they already know. TOK underpins and helps to unite the subjects that
students encounter in the rest of their DP studies.  The course engages students in explicit reflection on
how knowledge is arrived at in different disciplines and areas of knowledge, on what these areas have
in common and the differences between them.  IB students will complete the first semester of TOK in
the spring of 11th grade and the second semester of TOK in the fall of 12th grade.
IB Language and Literature HL - (2 credits)
11th – 12th grade
The IB Language and Literature HL course focuses on the complex and dynamic nature of language.
The course will explore the crucial role language plays in communication, reflecting experience and
shaping the world, and the roles of individuals themselves as producers of language. Students will
explore the various ways in which language choices, text types, literary forms and contextual elements
all affect meaning.  Through close analysis of various text types and literary forms, students will
consider their own interpretations, as well as the critical perspectives of others, to explore how such
positions are shaped by cultural belief systems and to negotiate meanings for texts.
IB Spanish SL - (2 credits)
11th –12th grade
Language acquisition courses are designed to provide students with the necessary skills and
intercultural understanding to enable them to communicate successfully in an environment where the
language studied is spoken. As a continuation of introductory language courses, students further
develop their ability to communicate through the study of language, themes and texts. There are five
prescribed themes: identities, experiences, human ingenuity, social organization and sharing the
planet. Students learn to communicate in the target language in familiar and unfamiliar contexts.
IB Spanish HL - (2 credits)
11th –12th grade
In addition to the SL course described above, the Spanish HL course expects students to develop a
higher level of receptive, productive and interactive skills. The HL course will also include the study of
two literary works originally written in the target language, and students are expected to extend the
range and complexity of the language they use and understand in order to communicate. Students
continue to develop their knowledge of vocabulary and grammar, as well as their conceptual
understanding of how language works, in order to construct, analyse and evaluate arguments on a
variety of topics relating to course content and the target language culture(s).
IB French SL - (2 credits)
11th –12th grade
Language acquisition courses are designed to provide students with the necessary skills and
intercultural understanding to enable them to communicate successfully in an environment where the
language studied is spoken. As a continuation of introductory language courses, students further
develop their ability to communicate through the study of language, themes and texts. There are five
prescribed themes: identities, experiences, human ingenuity, social organization and sharing the
planet. Students learn to communicate in the target language in familiar and unfamiliar contexts.
IB History SL - (2 credits)
11th –12th grade
The History SL course is a world history course based on a comparative and multi-perspective
approach to history and involves the study of a variety of types of history, including political, economic,
social and cultural, and provides a balance of structure and flexibility. The course emphasizes the
importance of encouraging students to think historically and to develop historical skills as well as
gaining factual knowledge. There are six key concepts that have particular prominence throughout the
DP history course: change, continuity, causation, consequence, sig-nificance and perspectives.  US
History TEKS will also be incorporated to prepare students for the US History graduation and EOC
requirement.
IB History of the Americas HL - (2 credits)
11th –12th grade
The History HL course is a world history course based on a comparative and multi-perspective
approach to history. It involves the study of a variety of types of history, including political, economic,
social and cultural, and provides a balance of structure and flexibility. The course emphasizes the
importance of encouraging students to think historically and to develop historical skills as well as
gaining factual knowledge. There are six key concepts that have particular prominence throughout the
DP history course: change, continuity, causation, consequence, sig-nificance and perspectives.  The
HL special topic for in depth study is History of the Americas.  US History TEKS will also be
incorporated to prepare students for the US History graduation and EOC requirement.
IB Psychology SL - (2 credits)
11th - 12th grade
The Psychology SL course is an introduction to three different approaches to understanding behavior:
the biological, cognitive and sociocultural approaches. Students study and critically evaluate the
knowledge, concepts, theories and research that have developed the understanding in these fields.  DP
psychology promotes an understanding of the various approaches to research and how they are used
to critically reflect on the evidence as well as assist in the design, implementation, analysis and
evaluation of the students’ own investigations.  The psychology course will be taught in one year and
will require additional class hours beyond the regularly scheduled class period.
IB Biology HL - (2 credits)
11th – 12th grade
The Biology HL course will include opportunities to design investigations, collect data, develop
manipulative skills, analyse results, collaborate with peers and evaluate and communicate their
findings.  The core components include:  cell biology, molecular biology, genetics, ecology, evolution
and biodiversity, human physiology, plant biology, genetics and evolution, and animal physiology.
Students will design a collaborative project that explores the relationships between scientific disciplines
and addresses the environmental, social, and ethical implementations of science and technology.
IB Physics SL - (2 credits)
11th – 12th grade
The Physics SL course will include opportunities to design investigations, collect data, develop
manipulative skills, analyse results, collaborate with peers and evaluate and communicate their
findings.  The core components include:  mechanics, thermal physics, waves, electricity and
magnetism, circular motion, nuclear physics, and energy production.  Students will design a
collaborative project that explores the relationships between scientific disciplines and addresses the
environmental, social, and ethical implementations of science and technology.
IB Physics HL - (2 credits)
11th – 12th grade
The Physics SL course will include opportunities to design investigations, collect data, develop
manipulative skills, analyse results, collaborate with peers and evaluate and communicate their
findings.  The core components include:  mechanics, thermal physics, waves, electricity and
magnetism, circular motion, nuclear physics, energy production, and higher level topics including a
focus on engineering physics.  Students will design a collaborative project that explores the
relationships between scientific disciplines and addresses the environmental, social, and ethical
implementations of science and technology.
IB Environmental Systems and Societies SL - (2 credits)
11th – 12th grade
Environmental systems and societies (ESS) SL is firmly grounded in both a scientific exploration of
environmental systems in their structure and function, and in the exploration of cultural, economic,
ethical, political and social interactions of societies with the environment. The interdisciplinary nature of
the DP course builds a broad skill set, including the ability to perform research and investigations,
participation in philosophical discussion and problem-solving. The course requires a systems approach
to environmental understanding and promotes holistic thinking about environmental issues to develop
solutions at the personal, community, and global levels.  The environmental course will be taught in one
year and will require additional class hours beyond the regularly scheduled class period.
IB Mathematics: applications and interpretation SL - (2 credits)
11th – 12th grade
The IB Mathematics: applications and interpretation SL course recognizes the increasing role that
mathematics and technology play in a diverse range of fields in a data-rich world. The course
emphasizes the meaning of mathematics in context by focusing on topics that are often used as
applications or in mathematical modelling and includes an integrated approach to precalculus,
statistics, and calculus topics with a greater emphasis on statistics.  Students focus on the ability to
solve real-world problems, construct and communicate solutions mathematically, and interpret the
conclusions or generalizations.
IB Mathematics: analysis and approaches HL - (2 credits)
11th – 12th grade
The IB DP Mathematics: analysis and approaches HL course recognizes the need for analytical
expertise in a world where innovation is increasingly dependent on a deep understanding of
mathematics. The focus is on developing important mathematical concepts in a comprehensible,
coherent and rigorous way and includes an integrated approach to precalculus, statistics, and calculus
topics with a greater emphasis on calculus.  Students are encouraged to apply their mathematical
knowledge to solve abstract problems as well as those set in a variety of real-world contexts. with a
strong emphasis on the ability to construct, communicate, and justify correct mathematical arguments.
IB Music SL - (2 credits)
11th – 12th grade
The Music SL course is grounded in the knowledge, skills ,and processes associated with the study of
music and offers a strengthened approach to student creativity through practical, informed, and
purposeful explorations of diverse musical forms, practices, and contexts. Students will take on the
roles of performer, creator, and researcher with the aim to develop critical perspectives on their own
music and the work of others.  The music course will be taught in one year, and students must be co-
enrolled in band, orchestra, or choir.
IB Visual Arts SL - (2 credits)
11th – 12th grade
The Visual Arts SL course encourages students to challenge their own creative and cultural
expectations and boundaries and to develop analytical skills in problem-solving and divergent thinking,
while also working towards technical proficiency and confidence as art-makers. In addition to exploring
and comparing visual arts from different perspectives and in different contexts, students are expected
to engage in, experiment with and critically reflect upon a wide range of contemporary practices and
media.
IB Visual Arts HL - (2 credits)
11th – 12th grade
The Visual Arts HL course encourages students to challenge their own creative and cultural
expectations and boundaries and to develop analytical skills in problem-solving and divergent thinking,
while also working towards technical proficiency and confidence as art-makers. In addition to exploring
and comparing visual arts from different perspectives and in different contexts, students are expected
to engage in, experiment with and critically reflect upon a wide range of contemporary practices and
media.  Topics in the HL course mirror the SL course with a greater expectation of depth and
complexity in student performance and assessment.